LAST CHANCE TO LEARN FOR JUST Redeem this offer by April 2nd DON'T PAY MORE Last chance! Are you a programming beginner? Maybe you've just started, or maybe you've taken a couple of entry-level programming classes and want to learn more. The beginner courses here will show you the basics of object-oriented programming (OOP) while teaching you the simple and functional Python programming language. When you've completed this section, you'll be ready to move on to improving your code quality. by Jason Olson Jan 26, 2018 / 1h 5m 1h 5m At the heart of creating software is being able to use the right tool for the right job. In this course, Python: The Big Picture, you'll learn about the Python programming language. First, you'll learn what Python is, what makes it different, and why you should care. Next, you'll explore the different ways Python is being used to develop different types of applications today. Finally, you'll discover how to get started working with Python code and what next steps you can take in your Python journey. When you're finished with this course, you'll have a foundational knowledge of Python that will help you as you move forward to recognizing when Python is the right tool for any future jobs you are faced with as a software developer. by Bo Milanovich Apr 27, 2017 / 2h 59m 2h 59m Hello, and welcome to Python: Getting Started, part of the Python Learning Path here at Pluralsight. My name is Bo Milanovich, and I’m looking forward to helping you learn this powerful and versatile language. Along the way, you’re going to be learning about things like syntax, functions, and classes, exploring how to create a console application and how to convert that same app into a web app, as well learn how to create executable files and an installation wizard from your Python app. In addition to Python, you’ll also be using Flask and Pycharm. This is a beginner-friendly course, but you’ll want to make sure you’re already up to speed on programming basics, such as what a function does and what a variable is. So if you’re ready to get going, Python: Getting Started is waiting for you. Thanks again for visiting me here at Pluralsight! by Austin Bingham Aug 21, 2013 / 5h 11m 5h 11m Python Fundamentals gets you started with Python, a dynamic language popular for web development, big data, science, and scripting. What’s so great about Python? Python is powerful. The Python language is expressive and productive, it comes with a great standard library, and it’s the center of a huge universe of wonderful third-party libraries. With Python you can build everything from simple scripts to complex applications, you can do it quickly, and you can do it with fewer lines of code than you might think possible. But for many people those reasons take back-seat to something more important: Python is fun! Python’s readable style, quick edit-and-run development cycle, and “batteries included” philosophy mean that you can sit down and enjoy writing code rather than fighting compilers and thorny syntax. As your experiments become prototypes and your prototypes become products, Python makes the experience of writing software not just easier but truly enjoyable. In the words of Randall Munroe, "Come join us! Programming is fun again!" by Sarah Holderness May 31, 2018 / 1h 0m 1h 0m Explore the basics of Python and learn what it means to store and manipulate numbers and words as well as make decisions with your program. This interactive course was formerly known as Try Python on Code School. by Sarah Holderness Oct 2, 2018 / 2h 20m 2h 20m Explore more Python basics and use them to help manage our circus and its Spam Van food truck. This interactive course was formerly known as Flying Through Python on Code School. The intermediate courses you see here will teach you to improve your code. You'll dive deeper into unit testing and debugging, as well as learn some of the more advanced features of the Python language. by Austin Bingham Jul 18, 2014 / 7h 22m 7h 22m Python – Beyond the Basics builds directly on the foundations laid in our introductory Python course, Python Fundamentals. Python is a great dynamic language for web development, big data, science, and scripting. In this course we add breadth and depth to your Python skills, exploring the topics you'll need to create robust and readable applications of any size. On completing this course, you'll be familiar with the majority of Python techniques and constructs used in Python programs. Crucially, we'll also advise you on when – and when not – to use the different tools available in Python to best effect, to maximize the quality of your code, your productivity, and the joy inherent in coding in Python. by Reindert-Jan Ekker Jul 18, 2014 / 2h 19m 2h 19m Becoming a professional Python developer means knowing more than just the language. Once you make the transition from simple scripts to larger projects, it becomes important to know the tools of the trade and how to use them. This course introduces you to a set of standard tools. We'll see how to install and manage your project's dependencies and how to set up your development environment. Then we'll go into code quality, debugging and documentation. Finally, we'll see how to package and distribute the final product. by Emily Bache Nov 1, 2013 / 2h 58m 2h 58m This course follows on from the Pluralsight "Python Fundamentals" course, and has more detail about unit testing with Python. We will cover libraries and frameworks such as unittest, doctest and py.test. The aim is to help you to write unit tests that improve code quality, and also support future development. Good unit tests should provide immediate value in terms of reduced debugging and better design, and the investment writing them should pay back over the whole lifetime of your software. by Tom Bell Sep 27, 2018 / 2h 35m 2h 35m Python & Flask are great for building a simple website. In this project, you'll use them to build a simple job board. The main page of the site will show all jobs and each job and employer will have dedicated pages. Users will also be able to review each employer. Our advanced Python track will show you how you can apply your newfound skill. You'll learn full-stack web development, as well as some techniques that will help you implement advanced frameworks. by Terry Toy Aug 21, 2015 / 3h 2m 3h 2m Learn full stack web development using Python and WEB2PY. WEB2PY is an easy to learn, integrate framework that includes a web server, admin, bootstap, and sqlite database. One simple download has everything you need to build robust, data driven web applications. This project-based course is for beginners new to web development or those who want to quickly learn a Python web framework. by Robert Smallshire Jun 24, 2017 / 3h 53m 3h 53m Over time, Python has exploded in popularity, from being an obscure scripting language to becoming one of the most popular, and widely used languages in the world. In this course, Advanced Python, you'll learn advanced topics, a knowledge of which will set you apart from the greater number of Python developers. First, you'll explore how to gain fine-grained control over attribute access. Next, you'll discover how to intercept class-object construction. Finally, you'll learn the subtle, but powerful, controls Python gives you over class relationships. By the end of this course, you'll know enough Python to understand the advanced techniques used to implement sophisticated frameworks and much more. Basic familiarity with the fundamental concepts of programming HTML Be sure to only enter offer codes separated by line breaks and does not include commas. * Required field