With Splash! you easily get all the high-resolution photos of Unsplash on your lock screen and desktop background. 2 minute setup - infinite eye pleasure.  • Huge pool of professional, high-resolution photos (currently up to 4K - 3840*2160 pixel) • Periodic, automated updates of your lock screen and desktop wallpaper • Filter the photos by search terms • You really like a photo? Save it to your device permanently With Splash! you easily get all the high-resolution photos of Unsplash on your lock screen and desktop background. 2 minute setup - infinite eye pleasure.  • Huge pool of professional, high-resolution photos (currently up to 4K - 3840*2160 pixel) • Periodic, automated updates of your lock screen and desktop wallpaper • Filter the photos by search terms • You really like a photo? Save it to your device permanently Sign in with your Microsoft account to view. May contain mature content. You may not access this content To rate and review, sign in. PC latest update is not up to the mark and is full of bugs as wallpapers are not changing automatically and manually . kindly look into the matter . before the update everything was working fine , that is why i gave 3 stars Does the problem still exist? Mobile Does not fully support my resolution. What is your resolution? Mobile Simple ... And Beautiful...بسیار برنامه ی جالبیه ، عکس هارو رایگان براتون به نمایش میذاره و شما میتونید دانلود کنید ، عکسهای جذاب و دیدنی ... واقعا زیباست...Thanks PC love this app. BUT a lot of ads in this update!!! I loved this app but it was perfect before this update..... PC I was looking for a wallpaper app that would give me a slideshow of 4k wallpapers, so I purchased the Pro version. I clicked through after adding tags for 4k and the wallpapers were not 4k. They were grainy and clearly had been made for lower resolution. The tag system is also horrible and doesn't narrow down results well at all. If I put 'forest' as a tag I get everything with a tree in it, forest or not. If they add an option of tags not to show, it would actually be usable. I am limited to what Unsplash offers here. If some user uploading his photo to Unsplash tags his tree picture as "forest", it will be returned from the API. Same goes with the grainy pictures. I can assure you they are 4K, but it's certainly possible that some user applied some bad image filter on his picture, making it look like low-resolution. 1 star is a tough rating for flaws that I cannot fix. PC These photos are really quality. They have beautiful colors, and although the resolution of the photos is lower than the resolution of my screen, they still show up well. PC I bought the pro version but the app keeps telling me that I have not and still display ads. If the problem persists after an app restart, please shoot me a mail and I assist in resolving the issue. most likely this a Windows Store Bug that can be solved by resetting the store cache. PC App works wonderfully.  2 changes I'd like to see: 1) Allow different images or even filters to show per monitor 2) Add an item to the Desktop's right-click menu to access Splash! features and options (e.g. be able to manually advance the image, visit the image's Unsplash webpage, etc by merely right-clicking on the desktop) PC Doesn't automatically change the wallpaper daily. It does. You likely didnt activate the feature or your Windows OS is blocking the apps background task PC Great app but I need 3440x1440 pics please Stay informed about special deals, the latest products, events, and more from Microsoft Store. Thank you! You’re now signed up to receive Microsoft Store emails. Thank you!