This app is only available on the App Store for iOS devices. Version 1.5.1 In the sea of apps available today, it’s next to impossible to find anything useful that’s truly free. It is so frustrating to spend time and energy looking for useful tools, only to find out it’s ultimately going to cost you something. I think we’ve all become suspicious of everything that claims to be “free.”  I’ve been using this app for months and have been pleasantly surprised to find Unsplash is truly free!  I’ve been waiting to see if it’s going to cost me my time, sanity or worse with obnoxious ads and pop ups I can’t seem to avoid. I don’t know how they do it, but Unsplash has not cost me a thing and I have enjoyed so many amazing images from amazing artists!  I am so pleasantly surprised!  All they ask is to consider dropping a quick thank you to the artist if you download one of their images. There’s no bait and switch. Not even an expiring free trial period surprise, I still can’t believe it. I feel bad that I haven’t sent any messages of thanks so I’m writing this as a huge thank you to the creators of this app and it’s artists!  Keep it up! I love what y’all are doing with this service and as a photographer I respect it, but for me the app has many issues. For one 99% of the time I can’t upload pictures. “Failed to upload picture”. That’s all I get and it’s so frustrating to me. Also half the time options and buttons just disappear out of nowhere. The back buttons will disappear so I have to close the app to go back to the home screen of the app, or the button to upload (which is almost totally useless because I can’t upload things anyway) disappears as well and I am just getting little to no use out this app, which I know that if it worked well, I could be. If I could get some support for these issues that would me marvelous! As of now, I give this app a very generous two stars. Requires iOS 11.0 or later. Compatible with iPhone, iPad, and iPod touch. English With Family Sharing set up, up to six family members can use this app.