To summarize, the Unsplash License and the CC0 License: Therefore, unless you’re attempting to create a similar or competing site to Unsplash using Unsplash photos, this change in License should not affect your use of Unsplash photos. Yes, you can use Unsplash photos as part of a product you sell. For example, using an Unsplash photo on a website that sells a product or service is fine. However you cannot sell an Unsplash photographer’s photo without first updating, modifying, or otherwise incorporating new creative elements into the photos (i.e., selling unaltered copies of the photos). This includes selling the photos as prints or printed on physical goods. You are allowed to use a photo of a public structure as long as you do not infringe on any trademarks. For trademark infringement to occur, there has to be both use of the trademark and a likelihood of confusion that the person using the photo is endorsed by the trademark owner. For instance, say you wanted to use a photo of the Eiffel Tower. If you were not authorized by the Eiffel Tower to sell tickets and you downloaded the photo and used it as part of an advertisement to sell tickets to the Eiffel Tower, then it’s likely that a consumer would mistaken that you are an endorsed ticket seller by the Eiffel Tower. This would infringe on the Eiffel Tower’s trademark rights. But if you’re a dentist and you decide to print up and frame the photo and hang it on your office wall, it’s highly unlikely that a patient would confuse that the Eiffel Tower endorses you. This would not be an infringement on the Eiffel Tower’s trademark rights. The fuel that drives Unsplash is the exceptional images that are generously contributed by people from all over the world. Without them, none of this would work. Unsplash would be nothing. We owe everyone who’s contributed a photo not only a thank you but support and empowerment for the gifts they’ve given us. Out of respect for our contributors and our ability to uphold our value of empowering creativity, we added this sentence to the Unsplash License. We don’t support the mass duplication of Unsplash photos with the purpose of replicating a similar or competing service because it leads to confusion which negatively impacts both the spirit of open creative use and the celebration of Unsplash contributors. Legally, once a photo has been released under The Unsplash License it remain free-to-use, even if removed. However we recommend in cases like this, that people respect the photographers decision to remove the photo. Beautiful, free photos brought to you by the world’s most generous community of photographers. Behind the scenes building the open photography movement at Unsplash.