We've detected that JavaScript is disabled in your browser. Would you like to proceed to legacy Twitter? Yes Roses are red, violets are blue, we've reached another milestone all thanks to you! Last night we surpassed 1.5M articles--all open and free. This comes 4 years, 1 month and 16 days after reaching 1M, which took more than 23 years to reach. 2M seems just around the corner! arXiv.org Retweeted XKCD Comic arXiv.org added, Dear readers: we will be including a subset of papers from the Nov 7 announcement as part of the upcoming announcement. The subset in question was affected by systematic compilation errors, preventing those papers from being read--now corrected. Thank you for your understanding. Update: All recent papers impacted by last night's glitch are rendering PDFs properly. There a few older papers that are still affected, and we are continuing to following up. The root cause has been identified. A small handful of papers may continue to have compilation issues this morning. A fix for those remaining papers is forthcoming this morning. There was a publishing glitch last night that delayed announcement emails and impacted rendering of  daily listings, followed by a high rate of compilation failures in a small window after publish time. All e-prints were published successfully. Dear users: arXiv will be unavailable for approximately 20 minutes due to maintenance starting 05:00 ET (09:00 UTC) on Thursday, November 1, 2018. We apologize for the inconvenience. @arxiv hasn't Tweeted yet. Back to top ↑ Here's the URL for this Tweet. Copy it to easily share with friends. This timeline is where you’ll spend most of your time, getting instant updates about what matters to you. Hover over the profile pic and click the Following button to unfollow any account. When you see a Tweet you love, tap the heart — it lets  the person who wrote it know you shared the love. The fastest way to share someone else’s Tweet with your followers is with a Retweet. Tap the icon to send it instantly. Add your thoughts about any Tweet with a Reply. Find a topic you’re passionate about, and jump right in. Get instant insight into what people are talking about now. Follow more accounts to get instant updates about topics you care about. See the latest conversations about any topic instantly. Catch up instantly on the best stories happening as they unfold.