Search This Site About arXiv Twenty-seven years ago, Paul Ginsparg began a project on his desktop to allow fellow physicists to share unpublished academic manuscripts efficiently without photocopying and paper mail. Today, arXiv boasts 1.5 million papers with 600 papers submitted each day and 7 paper downloads every second from users from all around the world. There are no fees associated with accessing or depositing content to arXiv. The repository has grown significantly and transformed the scholarly communication infrastructure of multiple fields of physics, and it plays an increasingly prominent role in mathematics, computer science, quantitative biology, quantitative finance, and statistics. Last year, it expanded its scope to include electrical engineering and systems science and economics. From the users’ perspective, arXiv continues to be a successful, prominent service, meeting the needs of many scientists around the world. It has an international scope, with submissions and readership from around the world, and collaborations with U.S. and foreign professional societies and other international organizations. It is an essential component of scientific communication, necessary to rapidly and widely disseminate their findings, establish priority of their discoveries, and seek feedback to help improve their work. arXiv is a repository for scholarly materials, including preprints, Version of Record, Author Accepted Manuscript, and postprints. We keep a permanent record of every submission and version posted, in order to provide perpetual access to the scholarly record. DOI and journal reference fields are provided so that the authors can indicate when their papers are formally published. Additionally, arXiv collaborates with some publishers and service providers (such as Inspire) to automatically update arXiv metadata with the DOI and journal references of published versions. Currently, approximately 60% of arXiv articles include DOIs or journal reference numbers. arXiv Feedback on the Guidance on the Implementation of Plan S 10.2 Requirements for Plan S compliant Open Access repositories: Automated manuscript ingest facility Full text stored in XML in JATS standard (or equivalent) Quality assured metadata…including information on the DOI of the original publication, on the version deposited (AAM/VoR), on the open access status and the license of the deposited version. The metadata must fulfill the same quality criteria as Open Access journals and platforms (see above). In particular, metadata must include complete and reliable information on funding provided by cOAlition S funders. …in standard interoperable format… Open API to allow others (including machines) to access the content QA process to integrate full text with core abstract and indexing services (for example PubMed) Submitted by: January 31, 2019  © 2019 Cornell University Get every new post delivered right to your inbox. Please prove that you are not a robot.