This thread is for asking questions and discussing just about anything related to academic papers. You may use this thread to help you find papers you recall reading, to help you understand papers better, to share thoughts you've had on papers, to share non-arXiv papers, and much more. Please just remain on-topic and civil. This thread is for asking questions and discussing just about anything related to academic papers. You may use this thread to help you find papers you recall reading, to help you understand papers better, to share thoughts you've had on papers, to share non-arXiv papers, and much more. Please just remain on-topic and civil. This thread is for asking questions and discussing just about anything related to academic papers. You may use this thread to help you find papers you recall reading, to help you understand papers better, to share thoughts you've had on papers, to share non-arXiv papers, and much more. Please just remain on-topic and civil. This thread is for asking questions and discussing just about anything related to academic papers. You may use this thread to help you find papers you recall reading, to help you understand papers better, to share thoughts you've had on papers, to share non-arXiv papers, and much more. Please just remain on-topic and civil. This thread is for asking questions and discussing just about anything related to academic papers. You may use this thread to help you find papers you recall reading, to help you understand papers better, to share thoughts you've had on papers, to share non-arXiv papers, and much more. Please just remain on-topic and civil. This thread is for asking questions and discussing just about anything related to academic papers. You may use this thread to help you find papers you recall reading, to help you understand papers better, to share thoughts you've had on papers, to share non-arXiv papers, and much more. Please just remain on-topic and civil. 893 Subscribers 4 Online arXiv+ - the Reddit curated arXiv