Blockchain technology is commonly associated with Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies, but that’s just the tip of the iceberg. Some people think blockchain could end up transforming a number of important industries, from health care to politics. Anthony WallaceAFP/Getty Images The entire blockchain is retained on this large network of computers, meaning that no one person has control over its history. That’s an important component, because it certifies everything that has happened in the chain prior, and it means that no one person can go back and change things. It makes the blockchain a public ledger that cannot be easily tampered with, giving it a built-in layer of protection that isn’t possible with a standard, centralized database of information. While traditionally we have needed these central authorities to trust one another, and fulfill the needs of contracts, the blockchain makes it possible to have our peers guarantee that in an automated, secure fashion. Data security is failing and there has to be a better system. Blockchain creates a secure, unalterable public record and is poised to dramatically improve the world around you, from voting systems to rental contracts. In order to validate the blocks in the same manner as a traditional private ledger, the blockchain employs complicated calculations. That, in turn, requires powerful computers, which are expensive to own, operate, and keep cool. That’s part of the reason that Bitcoin acted as such a great starting point for the introduction of blockchain technology, because it could reward those taking part in the process with something of financial value. Although Bitcoin, and alternative currencies, all utilize blockchain technology, they do so in differing manners. Since Bitcoin was first invented it has undergone a few changes at the behest of its core developers and the wider community, and other alt-coins have been created to improve upon Bitcoin, operating in slightly different ways. Blockchain technology has a lot of exciting potential, but there are some serious considerations that need to be addressed before we can say it’s the technology of the future. These problems will need to be resolved as blockchain becomes more popular. Still, considering we’re less than a decade on from the blockchain’s first implementation, it seems likely that we’re just seeing the start of adoption for this new idea.