Develop, test, and deploy secure blockchain apps To view this video please enable JavaScript, and consider upgrading to a web browser that supports HTML5 video. Blockchain is a transparent and verifiable system that will change the way people think about exchanging value and assets, enforcing contracts, and sharing data. The technology is a shared, secure ledger of transactions distributed among a network of computers, rather than resting with a single provider. Businesses are using blockchain as a common data layer to enable a new class of applications. Now, business processes and data can be shared across multiple organizations, which eliminates waste, reduces the risk of fraud, and creates new revenue streams. “When fully automated, blockchain can enforce consistency in execution, assist with dispute resolution, increase accountability, and deliver end-to-end transparency that can inform better business decisions.” Explore how blockchain is being applied across the banking, capital markets, and insurance industries. See how blockchain helps financial services institutions eliminate intermediaries, collaborate more efficiently, and create disruptive new business models. Read about how blockchain helps resolve disputes quickly and transparently. Discover how blockchain adds visibility to the corporate supply chain by keeping a single, real-time view that’s consistent for everyone. A digital identity is everything that defines a person in the digital world. People want more control over the data they share and how long companies can hold on to it. See how businesses are using blockchain to give users autonomy over there personal data. Cut development time and experiment easily with modular, preconfigured networks and infrastructure. Iterate and validate blockchain scenarios quickly by using built-in connections to Azure and tools you’re already familiar with. Keep your data secure and scale when you need to—on an open, trusted, globally available cloud platform. Ground-breaking insurance blockchain solution runs in Microsoft Azure Webjet uses Azure to power Rezchain, a payment reconciliation service for the online travel market Microsoft uses blockchain to deliver royalty statements to Xbox game publishers faster with significant efforts reduction Bühler will track crops from farm to fork using blockchain technology The Monetary Authority of Singapore uses blockchain on Azure for clearing and settlement of securities Interswitch uses Azure Blockchain Workbench to build a more prosperous Africa 3M uses Azure Blockchain to enable a new label-as-a-service approach for securing their supply chains Nasdaq brings blockchain to capital markets with Microsoft Azure Supply Chain Track and Trace Overview A common blockchain pattern is IoT-enabled monitoring of an asset as it moves along a multi-party supply chain. A great example of this pattern is the refrigerated transportation of perishable goods like food or pharmaceuticals where certain compliance rules must be met throughout the duration of the transportation process. In this scenario, an initiating counterparty (such as a retailer) specifies contractual conditions, such as a required humidity and temperature range, that the custodians on the supply chain must adhere to. At any point, if the device takes a temperature or humidity measurement that is out of range, the smart contract state will be updated to indicate that it's out of compliance, recording a transaction on the blockchain and triggering remediating events downstream. Flow Build with the ledger that suits your use case Use the Corda distributed ledger platform to deploy a multi-participant, multi-node network, plus a network map, notaries, and peers. Deploy a variety of Ethereum network topologies in minutes. Manage nodes with cross-region deployments, VM scale sets, and monitoring. Get a Hyperledger Fabric network up and running in minutes, and deploy services for membership, ordering, and validating peers. Build your own blockchain applications with help from our trusted partners Ernst & Young uses blockchain-enabled platforms to connect all parties in the marine-insurance process. Global team of experts help enterprises rationalize investments and build effective strategies around blockchain use cases. Advisory and implementation services help enterprises build, test, and deploy blockchain solutions. In late 2017, a growing number of customers were interested in using Hyperledger Fabric to build their applications on Azure. At this time, we announced support for this popular offering through the Azure Marketplace. We’re happy to announce the release of Workbench 1.6.0. It includes new features such as application versioning, updated messaging, and streamlined smart contract development. “Developers! Developers! Developers!” That phrase is synonymous with Microsoft’s history of democratizing complex technologies and empowering anyone with an idea to build software. Power your digital transformation, collect untapped data, and find new insights by connecting your devices, assets, and sensors Make the most informed decision possible by analyzing all the data you need in real time Build apps faster, focusing on innovation instead of infrastructure management Explore how distributed ledgers are being used to create identities that enhance personal privacy, security, and control Go Social Microsoft Azure Community Support Account Trusted Hello from Seattle.