Every second of every day, businesses exchange value with suppliers, partners, customers and others. By value, we mean goods, services, money, data and more. Each exchange of value is a transaction. Successful transactions need to be fast, precise and easily agreed on by parties participating in the transaction. Blockchain for business provides a way to execute many more of these transactions — a much better way. As each transaction occurs – and the parties agree to its details – it’s encoded into a block of digital data and uniquely signed or identified. Each block is connected to the one before and after it — creating an irreversible, immutable chain. Blocks are chained together, preventing any block from being altered or a block being inserted between two existing blocks. Blockchain creates a shared system of record among business network members, eliminating the need to reconcile disparate ledgers. Each member of the network must have access privileges. Information is shared only on a need-to-know basis. Consensus is required from all members and all validated transactions are permanently recorded. Even a system administrator can’t delete a transaction. Organizations must continually improve business processes and explore new opportunities. Blockchain helps build more efficient, enterprise business models. Facilitating transactions with suppliers, partners and customers helps streamline business processes and transactions. With blockchain, your business process network creates transactions using a distributed, permissioned, immutable ledger. Bitcoin is an unregulated, digital currency. Bitcoin uses blockchain technology as its transaction ledger. This video illustrates the distinction between the two. The IBM Blockchain Platform is powered by Hyperledger technology. This blockchain solution can help turn any developer into a blockchain developer. Visit the Hyperledger web site for details. Smart contracts are an integral part of blockchain technology. They automatically execute transactions and record information onto the ledger without human intervention. Conditions of smart contracts are mutually agreed on by network members. They’re a key component for establishing trust and efficiency between parties. Smart contracts eliminate essentially all the paperwork, streamlining the entire process and saving time and money. To help you learn more about smart contracts, Nigel Gopie, PhD, the IBM Food Trust Global Marketing Leader - IBM Blockchain, has written a blog post that explains smart contracts in more detail. Blockchain enables businesses to rethink the way they work. In the diamond industry, for example, each party can access: → Learn more from the blockchain tutorial on developerWorks. → Register to download the IBM Blockchain Platform white paper. → Visit the Hyperledger page on developerWorks. → View the quick start guide for developers. Discover how clients use IBM Blockchain now, to transform their business. Follow us: Follow us: