AWS provides the simplest way to build scalable blockchain networks and ledger applications for your business Blockchain technologies are often used to solve two types of customer needs. In the first case, multiple parties work with a centralized, trusted authority to maintain a complete and verifiable record of transactions. An example is a retail customer looking to connect its suppliers with a centralized ledger that maintains a transparent and verifiable history of information related to the movement of a product through its supply chain. In the other case, multiple parties transact in a decentralized manner without the need for a centralized, trusted authority. An example is a consortium of banks and export houses looking to perform cross-boundary transfer of assets (e.g. letter-of-credits) amongst each other, without a centralized authority acting as a liaison. If you need a centralized ledger that records all application data changes, and maintains an immutable record of these changes, AWS provides a ledger database. This database is high-performance, immutable, and cryptographically verifiable, eliminating the need for building complex audit tables or setting up blockchain networks. If you need the immutable and verifiable capability provided by a ledger, and also want to allow multiple parties to transact without a trusted central authority, AWS provides a fully managed, scalable blockchain service. AWS’ blockchain service makes it easy to setup, deploy, and manage scalable blockchain networks, eliminating the need for you to rely on expensive consulting implementations.  Amazon Quantum Ledger Database (QLDB) and Amazon Managed Blockchain provide the right tool for each job. Both of these fully managed services help companies manage business transactions that require full auditability, and remove the complexity and undifferentiated heavy lifting involved in implementing and managing a ledger database or creating and managing a blockchain network. Amazon Managed Blockchain is a fully managed service that makes it easy to create and manage scalable blockchain networks using popular open source frameworks Hyperledger Fabric and Ethereum. Amazon Managed Blockchain eliminates the overhead required to create the network, and automatically scales to meet the demands of thousands of applications running millions of transactions. Once your network is up and running, Managed Blockchain makes it easy to manage and maintain your blockchain network. It manages your certificates, lets you easily invite new members to join the network, and tracks operational metrics such as usage of compute, memory, and storage resources For customers who are looking to manage their own blockchain network and just need an easy way to set up and get started, AWS Blockchain templates are the right fit. Blockchain templates provide a fast and easy way to create and deploy secure blockchain networks using popular open source frameworks. These templates enable you to focus on building your blockchain applications instead of spending time and energy on manual setup of your blockchain network. AWS Blockchain Templates deploys the blockchain framework you choose as containers on an Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) cluster, or directly on an EC2 instance running Docker. AWS provides the broadest and deepest capabilities and the largest global infrastructure for building end-to-end blockchain platforms, cost efficiently and at scale. APN Technology and Consulting Partners offer a rapidly growing selection of blockchain and distributed ledger solutions with support for multiple protocols. Healthdirect Australia is a national, government-owned, not-for-profit organization that has been helping Australians manage their health and wellbeing for over a decade. Bruce Haefele - General Manager, Technology, Healthdirect Australia The Guardian Life Insurance Company is a financial services and insurance company whose offerings include life and disability insurance, employee benefits, and dental insurance. Smaato, one of the leading online ad exchanges in the world, sees over 20 billion bid requests/day pass through their exchange. Ragnar Kruse - CEO, Smaato The Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) provides industry-leading solutions that promote the stability and certainty of global financial markets. Amazon Web Services is Hiring.  