We support the values of the Paris Call in as much as they are open, bottom up, inclusive, and collaborative. We hope those who signed on will hold those values as dear as we do. As we approach the holiday buying season, excitement is building for all the new IoT gadgets – “smart” everything for the home, fitness/health trackers and a plethora of connected children’s toys. Did you know that the open standards that power the Internet are created by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)? “Our potential lies not only in our diversity, but in the power of our community to act as one in service of our mission. Together, our stories of an Internet with people at its heart offer a unifying message for all the world." 49% of the world is still not connected. Each person without Internet access is someone who is missing out on the future opportunities. Help us #SwitchItOn Read and download 'Do Blockchains Have Anything to Offer Identity?' paper Blockchain technology enables distributed public ledgers that hold immutable data in a secure and encrypted way and ensure that transactions can never be altered. While Bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies are the most popular examples of blockchain usage, this “distributed ledger technology” (DLT) is finding a broad range of uses. Data storage, financial transactions, real estate, asset management and many more uses are being explored. My first task as the Internet Society’s Regional Community Manager for the Middle East was to organize three events... This week is TNC18, the largest European research and education networking conference, which is being held at the Lerkendal... Every time you see “Login with Facebook” or “Login with Twitter” etc. on a website or use login credentials... How do we create a more secure and trusted Internet within the multistakeholder model of Internet governance? That will... Over on the Consult Hyperion blog, Dave Birch has written a characteristically lucid and engaging piece about hyperbole around... It’s the final day of the OECD Ministerial Meeting on the Digital Economy here in Cancun, Mexico, and there are just... This paper is intended for information technology staff and management, and any others working on or with Identity and...