Each day, forward-thinking companies are transforming blockchain’s promise into bottom-line business results. And they’re doing it with IBM Blockchain. But building and deploying enterprise blockchain solutions continues to be larger than any one business can tackle on its own. Discover how IBM Blockchain can help you bring together allies across departments and disciplines, industries and organizations, and countries and cultures. Learn how Mediaocean is helping advertisers and agencies erase opacity and avoid intermediaries costing billions in online ad fraud and waste. Visionary growers, processors, wholesalers, distributors, retailers and others are enhancing visibility and accountability throughout the food supply with IBM Food Trust™. we.trade brings together fierce banking rivals to create new business value in offering liquidity to small and medium-sized businesses. IBM Blockchain World Wire is the new financial rail that simultaneously clears and settles cross-border payments in near real-time. Integrating with existing payment systems, World Wire replaces costly opacity with affordable transparency – and that can bring greater financial opportunity to all.    IBM helps you rapidly simplify blockchain complexity to commercialize a network, unlock new value and scale up competitive advantages. #1 ranked in blockchain leadership credentials¹ 500+ blockchain client engagements to date We commissioned a Forrester Total Economic Impact™ (TEI) report to help you identify the cost, benefits, flexibilities and risk factors of working with IBM Blockchain. The research is based on Forrester’s TEI methodology, financial model framework and case studies, plus interviews with IBM Blockchain stakeholders and customers. Register now to watch our latest webinar and read the report to project your cost savings and the business benefits of working with IBM Blockchain. Learn the secrets of effective enterprise blockchain adoption through early collaboration across teams. Watch with live Q&A on April 9, 12:00 PM EDT. Join the IBM Blockchain Insights Forum Help shape the future of IBM Blockchain as part of this growing professional community. Read thought leadership articles In-depth insights on your industry’s digital transformation from the IBM Institute of Business Value. Explore our Developer Center Tools, tutorials, code and more for blockchain app developers using open source Hyperledger Fabric and IBM Blockchain. Join thousands of businesses producing new value, re-writing the rules of their industry and changing the way the world works together. Follow us: Follow us: