Watch Video Infosys supports you at every step of blockchain adoption, from Design Thinking-led assessment that evaluates blockchain solutions from multiple dimensions, rapid prototyping, creation of Proof-of-Concepts and pilot development to complete implementation of blockchain solutions. Our pre-built blockchain platform and solutions help accelerate the realization of your blockchain network. Infosys’ rich experience across a host of industries and domains coupled with strong integration capabilities helps ease the challenges of process and technology inter-operability across the blockchain network, while addressing important aspects such as security & privacy of shared data, consensus management, data exchange standardization and business process re-alignment across network participants. Infosys harnesses the power of blockchain to help you create a network where data is much more accessible and reliable, and transactions among partners on the network are verifiable and traceable, enabling an ecosystem of trust with your suppliers, partners, and customers. Infosys’ industry experience and networks can enable ecosystem connections that help amplify the potential of your network. Blockchain INCUBATION AS A SERVICE Blockchain SERVICES BLOCKCHAIN SOLUTIONS INFOSYS BLOCKCHAIN PLATFORM When you begin your blockchain journey with Infosys, you can choose which services you need. And here is a look at how it can work for you: Assess blockchain opportunities with our Design Thinking-based assessment framework and create prototypes Elaborate, design and implement selected blockchain use cases. Pilot with stakeholders and evaluate. Implement blockchain solution with technology and process considerations on the selected platform. Test for necessary scale, performance and security. Integrate partner systems and IT on blockchain network. Implement consensus and governance mechanisms. Deploy blockchain solution across the network. Enable changes and updates. Identification of relevant use cases and demonstrable prototypes Validation of the desirability, feasibility and viability of the blockchain use case Ready to deploy blockchain solution Blockchain network established & partners on-boarded Operational blockchain network Infosys Blockchain can help enterprises across industries overcome the inherent challenges of their current processes. This video explains how blockchain can be a game-changer, and how Infosys can help enterprises onboard Blockchain networks and solutions, through rapid incubation and associated services. Understand how our blockchain framework accelerates the creation of blockchain-powered networks by offering a broad range of services. Blockchain can play a role in simplifying digital rights management. DRM, as it is commonly known, is complex as solutions here were not designed for today’s changing business models such as the downloading of music, streaming of content, and use of set top box for television. Know more. Read More Blogs Copyright © 2018 Infosys Limited The website is best experienced on the following version (or higher) of Chrome 31, Firefox 26, Safari 6 and Internet Explorer 9 browsers