By this time, you must have heard about Bitcoin and cryptocurrency. Though this term has been used for decades, it’s now becoming very popular with the recent crypto boom. Many big corporations and venture capitalists are betting billions of dollars on “the blockchain”. This may look like something that only tech-savvy bankers and IT professionals can understand, but I would like to break protocol and give you a simpler explanation of “blockchain” than any other explanation I’ve ever heard before… Note: This article is part of our Blockchain series. Do scroll to the bottom for more articles in this series. Let’s try to understand this with a simple example: Consider a special Google spreadsheet which is shared by every computer in the world and is connected to the internet. Every time a transaction happens, it gets recorded onto a row of this spreadsheet. Anyone with a mobile device or computer can connect via the internet and can access the spreadsheet. Anyone can view and add a transaction to this spreadsheet, but the spreadsheet doesn’t allow anyone to edit the information which is already there. This is basically a blockchain. Isn’t it simple? The same way that this spreadsheet has “rows”, a blockchain has “blocks”. And this is why Bitcoin is unique. Blockchain’s very first and most famous application is Bitcoin, a peer-to-peer digital currency for the modern, digital age. Bitcoin is created and held on Bitcoin’s blockchain. Unlike traditional money, you can send Bitcoin money to anyone and anywhere without seeking permission from banks or governments. Bitcoin’s blockchain doesn’t care whether you are a human or a machine. Thousands of Bitcoin nodes on the blockchain are equally able to verify the legitimacy of payments. That’s why there is no need for any third party intermediaries like banks. Bitcoin’s recent price rally and its mass adoption speak volumes about the inherent worth of a blockchain concept. These blocks have unique features like: Each block has a date and time attached to it. Each block has multiple copies placed in several locations. Anyone can view what’s on the block. In this way, as more blocks keep on getting added to the blockchain, it becomes more computationally difficult to reverse the transaction or to double spend a transaction. Each of these copies contains the history of blocks since the beginning of the Bitcoin network. This makes it difficult for anyone to corrupt or take down the system. Moreover, each transaction is secured by strong cryptographic math. Bitcoin is only one example of a blockchain application. But blockchain solutions can be implemented across many industries to solve various issues. Blockchain, as explained above, is an immutable and transparent database of records. This immutability and transparency ensure that there is no need for any third person to look after the database. Consider the example of a farmer from Africa. He bought a piece of land, but in a flood, he lost his copy of the deed and agreement of the land. Now he has no way of claiming he owns his land. And he had a digital copy of the ownership agreement on a governmental database, but that too was destroyed during the flood. Now, this farmer is at a loss!! He would have avoided these problems had he filed his land deed copy on a blockchain, which would have had multiple copies distributed around the world. And it’s no exaggeration that blockchain technology will soon be an integral part of our lives. But the success or failure of Bitcoin or any other cryptocurrency will not decide the blockchain’s future. Some notable shifts in the blockchain ecosystem are as follows: Apart from all these, blockchain solutions are being discussed in industries like automobiles, identity management, intellectual property rights, real estate, healthcare, supply chain management, and governance (to name a few). When all is said and done, only time will tell how disruptive this invention of computer science will be. And if you found this post informative, do share it with your friends on Twitter and Facebook! For further reading: Contents July 5, 2017 at 6:26 pm amazing blog Sudhir 🙂 July 10, 2017 at 1:57 pm Very well explained, Sudhir! It is definitely disruptive but as you said, time will tell. November 1, 2017 at 9:11 am Hi, this is more of a query than a comment. Last evening I transferred some BTC from my Unocoin wallet to my Zebpay one. The intention was to sell them through Zebpay since the sell price was higher. Within minutes, Unocoin confirmed that the payment was successful. However, even now so many hours after the transfer. The BTC haven’t turned up in Zebpay. The transaction hash says Unconfirmed. Have I lost my BTC? Worried. Please help. I am new to all this and this was my first transfer. Is the problem with Zebpay or Unocoin?  What should I do now? November 1, 2017 at 11:14 am November 1, 2017 at 11:21 am Hi, Sudhir, Thanks for the prompt reply. By tx  ID do you mean the transaction Hash? I don’t mind sharing it, but is it advisable sharing it on a public forum? November 3, 2017 at 2:19 pm November 3, 2017 at 2:24 pm My issue for resolved, thanks. November 19, 2017 at 8:04 am Thanks for the article, Sudhir. Very interesting and easily digestible. December 10, 2017 at 5:07 pm You are explaining that Blockchain is like a Bank Passbook. Am I right..? December 11, 2017 at 11:57 am Check out these two videos CoinSutra was started as a passion project, and now it’s empowering users around the globe to learn about popular cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, Ripple, and more. Here at CoinSutra, we write about Bitcoin, wallet management, online security, making money from Bitcoin & various aspects of cryptocurrencies. Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. How to invest in Bitcoin Write for us Cryptocurrency exchange CoinSutra was started as a passion project, and now it’s empowering users around the globe to learn about popular cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, Ripple, and more. Here at CoinSutra, we write about Bitcoin, wallet management, online security, making money from Bitcoin & various aspects of cryptocurrencies. Enter your email address to subscribe to this blog and receive notifications of new posts by email. How to invest in Bitcoin Write for us Cryptocurrency exchange Buy Bitcoin Instantly Convert Bitcoin to USD BitMEX Review Ledger Nano S review BitCoin Wallets Best Ethereum wallets Buy Tron Cryptocurrency Buy Bitcoin with Credit card Cryptocurrency trading Best hardware wallet CoinBase alternative Bitit review Copyright © 2017 - 2019