From traceable supply chains to permanent identity for refugees, Blockchain is pioneering transparent and secure business processes. Blockchain is a new way of storing data in a distributed ledger that allows multiple stakeholders to confidently and securely share access to the same information. Blockchain technology provides new infrastructure to build the next innovative applications beyond cryptocurrencies, driving profound, positive changes across business, communities and society. Blockchain will supercharge artificial intelligence and IoT to make everything from supply chains to digital identity management smarter and more secure.  Download Slide Email Slide The key set of new tech is DARQ: distributed ledger technology (DLT), artificial intelligence (AI), extended reality (XR) and quantum computing. Organizations and people will see Blockchain applications revolutionize healthcare, banking, supply chains, tech-based relationships, and more. Central banks can lead the way in shaping the future of cryptocurrencies. Powered by blockchain: Realizing AI's full potential. Business process synchronization between Digital Asset, R3 Corda, Hyperledger Fabric and Quorum distributed ledger platforms. From aerospace to nonprofits, every sector can reap rewards from the dramatic cost-savings and seamless partnerships sparked by Blockchain technology. Enable greater financial inclusion and drive new business models that tap into diverse consumer markets and providers. How trust, speed and transparency can transform the Life Sciences supply chain. Investment banks need to boost profit and reduce risk. Can Blockchain help? The Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation commissioned Accenture to explore the feasibility of blockchain across four commodities in the food sector. Explore our ecosystem of Blockchain offerings, alliances and collaborations. See how our R&D groups put innovation to work for you. Learn more about our design-led, multidisciplinary research and incubation hub. We were unable to find a match for "$searchstring." Try searching again by using different or more general keywords and check for spelling errors.