The hype over blockchain has picked up steam and enterprises rush to apply blockchain to their industry or even just add it to their initiatives of the year. Blockchain becAme a buzzword of 2018 and seems to be buzzing pretty well in 2019 so far, as well. The blockchain appears to be part of the digital transformation strategies of high-profile executives. Decide it for yourself by looking into the core of blockchain technology and understanding some current trends in blockchain application development. It is also essential to know the history of blockchain which starts with the incredible takeoff of cryptocurrencies. “First they ignore you. Then they laugh at you. Then they attack/hate you. Then you win.” Perhaps, no one would ever begin bustling about blockchain unless bitcoin came into the spotlight in 2008. This was the time when the first cryptocurrency got its name starting Bitcoin evolution phase when the only use case of Blockchain was about enabling crypto transactions. However, in its early days, bitcoin, not talking about blockchain, did not receive much attention from society. But why was something that revolutionary ignored until 2013 when it hit the mainstream? First off, participation in bitcoin transactions required an installation of sophisticated software with difficult to understand interface, cryptographic operations with public and private keys, protocol basics, etc. It is no wonder that common users did not bother to get into crypto. Firstly, they saw no point in having it, if fiat money already did the job; and secondly, there was little trust to currency looking like created out of nothing by a gang of anonymous cyber-anarchists. Neither a big event was the first transaction made by Satoshi Nakamoto nine days later who sent 100 bitcoins to a software developer Hal Finney interested in the new technology. That was only the beginning of bitcoin mining history. We may call it an IGNORE stage. Although this movement drew mainstream attention supported by a community of true enthusiasts, the new digital values (or tokens) made people only smile about an opportunity to exchange them for fiat money. However, nine months after the pizza day, bitcoin blockchain reached its first milestone mark (1 BTC = $1). Most of such altcoins were based on the codebase of bitcoin and came into the cryptocurrency market with their claim to uniqueness, main idea, goals, and a project development plan. Their creators launched ICOs being backed up solely with an approach described in a white paper and managed to fundraise investors’ fiat money or other virtual currency for the token’s value actually generated out of thin air. That was a LAUGH stage. Compromised wallets were repetitively emptied during 2011-2013 resulting in 850,000 bitcoins lost, and bankruptcy of Mt.Gox announced in 2014. The security breach was caused by the lack of encryption of private keys as the Bitcoin 0.4.0 had only wallet encryption and thus, attackers needed only to steal a wallet.dat file. Those were the first ATTACK examples. Since the rise of cryptos, the most popular have been pump-and-dump schemes – a deliberate increase of the digital coin’s value (often with a low market cap) in order to attract investments from outside and then, sell the currency at the highest price leading to huge losses among investors. All this is done to create the coin’s value at the day of its launch, which is announced on the most visited cryptocurrency forums. After the crypto gets enough buzz and support from the community of developers, more and more investors are getting attracted to crowdfunding the project. At the same time, the payouts to earlier investors are performed from the money of new investors. Isn’t it a good reason for hate overwhelming naive investors left with nothing? That was a HATE stage. The total independence of cryptocurrency from any control or intervention of authorities seemed a real threat not only to the foundations of national financial systems but to the world order. Cypherpunk anarchistic ideas propagating the freedom from government or its replacement with the disruptive digital currency and its network caused much of concern at the governmental level. Perhaps, this is one of the reasons why the perception of bitcoin has been tainted since its early days and tech giants, as well as officials, turned their eyes to its underpinning technology. So, when a sender transmits his signed transaction to a P2P network, its nodes should validate the initiated transaction and the status of a sender by using specific algorithms. After the transaction is verified, it is combined with other transactions ready for creating a new block with data in a distributed ledger. Once a record is added to the block, it is by design immutable to any further alterations. The transaction is regarded completed when the block is added to the blockchain. dApps are run on blockchain or peer-to-peer network which does not require any middleman to control or manage any user’s data. They are open-source, decentralized, rely on consensus mechanism and have no single points of failure (SPOF). Among SPOF examples are a data center with failed generator backup, a service provider that can’t handle a power outage, and even people who may fail to meet their obligations, etc.). However, it is Ethereum that is credited with expanding the vision of blockchain from cryptocurrency to a system which can be applicable to other domains such as identity management systems, supply chain management, energy grid, trade finance, government systems, etc. Ethereum blockchain allows implementing a key purpose of a blockchain – eliminating the need in a third party to regulate any transactions instead verified by achieving a consensus of all the participants in the system. A decentralized investment fund DAO that is run by smart contracts has become the cause of all the fuss. After the organization beat the crowdfunding record gathering $150 million dollars, an attacker managed to steal 50 million of ether in June 2016 due to the exploited flaw in the DAO smart contracts software. Today, it functions as a standards body and a community with over 300 members working on specifications and standards to Ethereum extensions comprising consensus mechanisms and privacy features. It is one of the most influential blockchain enterprise consortia together with Hyperledger, R3, B3i, FISCO, etc. By the way, many of the projects mentioned above are already thriving. For example, a range of dApps run on NEO blockchain together with Smart Economy distributed network for managing digital assets, digital identity, and smart contracts of public and private/enterprise projects. This example shows how influential and mind-shifting blockchain technology is at the moment. While cryptocurrencies and blockchain are at the top of the hype cycle, we must not lose sound view of things – building a real foundation for these technologies still has to go a long way before they reach mass implementation. Despite the tremendous tasks ahead, I believe that in less than a decade, we will see entirely new business models changing the face of the modern world. Jan Keil is VP of Marketing at Infopulse who is contributing to the business development and the company’s success at the global IT services market. With 20+ years of experience in IT sector, Jan has been involved in a myriad of projects driven by blockchain, IoT, AI, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Neural Networks, AR, VR, and cybersecurity. More details on Jan's blockchain expertise: involved in most of Infopulse’s blockchain development projects, e.g., blockchain enterprise application for banks, automotive and top 10 crypto projects that we support; an advisor for blockchain start-ups; Jan has attended a number of blockchain conferences as a speaker and also participated in blockchain meet-ups and international expositions such as Blockchain Week NYC with ConsenSys, CEBIT, it-sa, MSC.