SE: It’s a merchant bank with a balance sheet to invest. We invest in everything blockchain and crypto-related and in the future of tech broadly. We’re also publicly traded in Toronto [having executed a reverse merger with a shell company on the exchange]. We’ve invested several hundred million dollars already in blockchain and crypto investments and tokens. TC: One of the things you oversee is a venture fund that counts Block.one as the only limited partner other than Galaxy. Block.one is developing a blockchain-based infrastructure software, is that right? TC: And you kicked in $25 million to have some skin in the game. Do you co-invest in anything with the other partner funds or share deal flow in any way? Also, does Block.one have to sign off on what you want to fund? TC: What other products does Galaxy have? SE: We’re also in the process of raising a credit and special opportunities fund to make structured credit investments in the space. We have an index fund. It’s a portfolio of investment products. Galaxy Digital more broadly has an investment business, a trading business — Mike is best-known for and been a macro trader and is now trading around crypto tokens and liquid products — and then an advisory business, too. We’re a registered broker-dealer doing M&A advisory, increasingly focusing on what we think will be opportunities as startups begin to [consolidate their efforts], and also doing traditional capital raising for startups and later-stage companies. TC: Of those, which is your biggest business? SE: Our investment business is our biggest business by far. Our trading business is growing quickly, even through a downturn in the market, though it’s really taking the longest to stand up as any trading business would. Our advisory business is [the most nascent]. Not much of [Galaxy Digital] is floated. We think that as we prove out what we’re building [that will change]. TC: Is it safe to say that last year was pretty brutal, especially given that the firm officially opened its doors last January? SE: Oh, yeah, definitely, though it was a somewhat predictable sell-off in hindsight. I don’t care what the asset class it is — when things go up with that kind of velocity, they tend to come down with equal momentum. People got very excited. What’s unique about crypto and blockchain relative to other retail [offerings is that it’s] possible for the average person to buy into the frenzy. The development of other tech has involved professional investors taking risk in a calculated manner, but suddenly, [crypto] was available to everyone. And it was the evolution of crowdfunding and social media and information spreads fast, and when the message is that you can get rich fast, people are going to go for it. Presumably, many retail investors who got in got out, along with people who’d been in the space a while and took their profits. So things were never as good or as bad as they seemed. Despite the ‘crypto winter,’ companies have been [at work] and a lot of the hype is turning into actual working technology. TC: So no more frenzies or bubbles? SE: We’ll definitely see more as this technology continues to develop. We’re still a ways away from it being the seamless technology we enjoy with the web. But it’s probably not all that different from what we lived through the last time around, where a few companies become massively important and a lot of them don’t. TC: How do you rate SEC chief Jay Clayton? Are you in favor of the SEC regulating more of this new world? SE: Yes, for sure. Fair, researched, smart regulation is absolutely what an industry like this needs, along with making sure that people understand there will be standards in terms of behavior and business practices that every industry needs. I think the more reasonable regulation we have, the better everyone will be. TC: Is there a country whose regulations or approach you’d like the U.S. to adopt? TC: What has you most excited right now about the deals you’re seeing? SE: Video games and digital objects are one of the reasons I’m excited. Many will integrate blockchain technology in important ways that will matter this year, and, by the way, I don’t think we’re many years away from web 3.0 and the decentralized internet from being ubiquitous in the same way that we’d be shocked today if we encountered a business that had no exposure to the internet. TC: What applications are close? SE: The reason there’s been so much talk about blockchain and video games, for example, is because the [gaming] world is made up of digital objects. Meanwhile, people have recognized that the blockchain allows you to create truly scarce digital objects that someone can truly own and trade as they would a physical object. With respect to gaming, that means you can own the digital objects you acquire in the game, and if you’re a collector of certain physical objects, the experience of collecting will become gamified in digital ways. TC: Meaning … The lines between commerce and gaming and trading grow more blurred by the day. TC: What’s your driving thesis? SE: That the digital world will blend with the the physical world as we invest more of our time in digital worlds and on our digital identity. Included in that is the inventory of stuff we own. We’re going to demand that no one can take that away from us. Above: Mike Novogratz speaks during the 2018 Yahoo Finance All Markets Summit at The Times Center on September 20, 2018 in New York City. Featured mid-post: Sam Engelbardt