Panelists, speakers, bloggers, and journalists across the world were throwing bold statements about blockchain being a panacea against fraudulent advertising traffic. Is blockchain really a new cure against all advertising problems, or should we take it with a grain of salt? Let’s take a look at the decentralized ledger — can it help the industry that’s already technology-rich? Despite the apparent complexity of the blockchain, delving into the general principles of its work will be enough for a layperson to understand the advantages and possibilities that technology brings to advertising. The decentralized ledger consists of blocks attached to each other. These blocks contain information about all transactions and actions which have taken place. An attempt to change one block will destroy the integrity of the chain. That’s why the computers of the other participants automatically reject it. All network participants have a unique identifier and a digital signature. At the same time, the personal data remains confidential (or available in case a particular chain’s requirements state so). As well, the IBM ecosystem provides support to startups who have created blockchain-based applications. They will be able to place their products in the IBM Marketplace store. Software developers can join the IBM ecosystem and freely access tools (including library code, smart contract templates, etc.), education courses, and more. Many blockchain advertising products are also built on Ethereum and so-called utility tokens that function within the system and are issued to participants when the desired action is verified. In such projects, utility tokens guarantee financial operations between supply and demand parties and serve as an incentive for the users who receive tokens for their attention to advertising. There are a few cases that illustrate the practical advantages of using blockchain technology. Some of them we’ve mentioned, but the rest of them still exist at the level of ideas and pilot projects. For the most part, marketers and advertisers are still poorly aware of the principles of blockchain technology and implementation. Because marketers and advertiser know so little about blockchain technology and implementation — this fact stays as the number one reason why markets hesitate with mass technology adoption. Blockchain has not been embraced by the industry as a standard yet. The functioning of nodes depends on the number of network participants; in other words, the infrastructure is what supports the operation. If there are few participants in the network, it will not be quick and efficient. Blockchain holds great potential for digital advertising since it solves fundamental issues of trust, eliminates ad fraud, and makes advertiser-publisher relationships more transparent. We are standing on a threshold of mass introduction of blockchain-based ad solutions into real businesses. When market participants combine their efforts and finally build a robust infrastructure, we’ll witness the emergence of solutions that satisfy the needs of all market participants. Ivan Guzenko is an ad tech visionary, CEO and co-founder of the SmartyAds company