There are no Videos in your queue. There are no Articles in your queue. There are no Podcasts in your queue. You're not following any authors. It’s been more than a decade since Satoshi Nakamoto introduced the world to the concept of the modern blockchain. But we’ve come a long way from the early days of bitcoin. Not only has the cryptocurrency market exploded, thanks to the use of this revolutionary technology, but private and public sector organizations are rapidly investing in modernizing their technology stacks around it. Because of the rapid adoption speed and the fragmented nature of the technology, though, collaboration has been stilted until recently. Academic pursuits occurred in a silo separate from private corporation investment and government exploration. As the technology has matured, though, new blockchain organizations have launched to bridge these gaps, advocate for the technology and help establish international standards. Here are six of the most important of these organizations and what they offer the blockchain ecosystem. Founded by Jon Bradford, Hazem Danny Al Nakib, and chaired by Hermann Hauser KBE, the Cambridge Blockchain Forum is working toward identifying and addressing the UK’s strategic objectives around regulation and new implementations of blockchain technology across a variety of sectors that are solving real issues through a collaborative and cross-disciplinary approach. Current projects include regulatory gap analysis with the British Business Federation Authority, creating new draft legislation around blockchain and preparing use cases for public sector implementations that provide a tangible benefit to society. The think-tank is currently managing more than 100 research projects focused on technologies related to blockchain. Projects are all published online and distributed with multimedia for easier sharing in both public/private sector environments and academia. They focus on ten sectors that include energy and power, finance, government, healthcare, telecom, manufacturing, media, resources and mining, technology and retail. Slovenia has been an upward trajectory since it emerged from the fiscal crisis that ravaged much of Europe earlier this decade. They have seen slow and steady GDP growth for the last five years, and the government sees blockchain as an opportunity to take that growth to the next level. The new Think Tank was launched on Nov. 28, 2018 with the release of its first paper, “EU Token Regulation Paper.” The paper is an iteration of the Token Regulation Paper originally published by Blockchain Bundesverband in February 2018. The new paper is a European effort, with 50 professions in the space from throughout 20 European countries contributing. The research will be focused on a number of overlapping areas, with the goal being full academic transparency in their findings. Early project topics include verification and testing techniques, applications for blockchain, cryptocurrency, P2P network utilization in these systems and more. The organization also plans to hold several events including an annual workshop on research and business starting in 2019.