Long answer: fuck, no. Short answer: absolutely. Think of the dumpster fire that would be a global stock exchange that can't close, can't halt trading, and offers always-on instant electronic trading of tiny fractions of a stock for cheap, to anybody. You think algorithmic trading is bad now. Think of the dumpster fire that would be a global stock exchange that can't close, can't halt trading, and offers always-on instant electronic trading of tiny fractions of a stock for cheap, to anybody. Most stock transactions do not happen on the public exchanges. Stock shares are quantized because the company wants them quantized.  They are free to change the multiplier with a stock split or join. But if you have large priced shares you can influence who buys them and sometimes you wnat institutional buyers rather than whimsical day traders.  Likewise if they are voting shares you prefer, usually, institutional voters over people who vote randomly. The most famous example is Berkshire Hathaway.  A single share currently costs $300,000. Warren Buffett keeps it high to discourage short term investors. At an actually higher ratio- the prices would suggest class b's get 1/1500th of a vote, but they get more like 1/200th Now a wallet-hacking crypto thief will be able to make your retirement savings vanish in a fraction of a second. LOL, were you in a coma in 2008, or what? Could they? Absofuckinlutely. You can always subdivide and repackage the ownership certificates for something like stocks that are a paperwork-based item of value. If they tricked you into taking their question at face value, they already tricked you and are done. Now they're an "innovator" and you're a "skeptic" and they've created a lot of "interest." You might want to re-check your tulip market myth, it is a modern fiction not some sort of economic insight. Remember? Remember? This will just make corporations even more obsessed with ever growing profits. More likely it will have the opposite effect.  Management prefers to invest for the long run, and they hate the pressure for ever higher quarterly profits.  The pressure for short term profits and divestiture comes from big activist shareholders.  Small holders and day traders don't get involved in corporate governance, they don't go to shareholder meetings, and they make it harder for activists to get a quorum for change. You can buy fractional shares of stock today. This claims to save some broker fees, but that has nothing to do with blockchain and sensible (small) investors don't trade stocks very often anyway. After the next recession and tech bubble bursts all of this nonsense will be gone. Until the next one. Indeed. The supply of fools with some money they want to desperately and blindly turn into more on the cheap is endless, and they never learn from history. Other than buying drugs/hacking/childporn from a distance...will there ever be anything POSITIVE we can do with this technology If you think governments can't crack down on cryptocurrencies if they want to, you're dreaming. If cryptocurrency were a serious threat to traditional currency, the government could simply make transactions involving title transfers and contracts unenforceable. If you think governments can't crack down on cryptocurrencies if they want to, you're dreaming. That's a strawman: you are  attacking something I never claimed. I'm just saying that the Wikileaks thing doesn't prove anything about cryptocurrency.  Apparently you agree. I agree, they can't *narrowly target* sanctions.  But if that's a problem, they can put in blanket provisions that will sufficiently limit cryptocurrency's usefulness across the board. Hash chains are extremely useful, and are used all over the place. Git, for example.  Their main feature is fast integrity checking. "Blockchain" is a hash chain with a bunch of "gubmint bad" philosophy attached to it, and resulting technological shenanigans to avoid setting up a central authority. Unsurprisingly, so far that has proven useful in the domains you describe. Buzzword bingo it is! 1 - Stocks go from being owned based on a ledger to being "barer".  If you own the stock on the block chain, you own the stock.  This means that if someone hacks your computer he can own your stocks.  Much easier than trying to get ownership of your stocks via Vanguard or Fidelity, even if they get your password to those accounts. 1a - If someone owns the ledger, they can own all your stocks.  I'll trust Vanguard or Fidelity.  Thankyouverymuch. I suspect that the next bubble will bust the myth that you can't lose via this strategy (e.g. ``you can't lose by investing in real estate''). I never said "you can't lose".  I said you're much better served: ... at the moment. Fraud abounds, insecurity is rampart, major problems are unsolved. This half-baked idea would never have gotten big, were it not for the widespread greed and stupidity in the human race. For the moment, the idea has failed. It may get a revival when major problems have been solved, but that will take some time. It used to be that stocks paid dividends to shareholders. This rate was above and beyond interest on bank deposits, who loaned the money. There was extra risk, but there was also extra reward. Fast forward to today and stocks are essentially a fun and lucrative gambling market for those so inclined.  Money is made from trading and arbitrage, not dividends. The difference between a Google Class C stock share (non-voting, non-dividend-paying) and a unit of cryptocurrency is minimal, other than the class C has some favorable tax treatment. Dividends as a portion of share price is similar to bank deposit interest rates - tiny, with no risk premium, in chance that dividends are even paid. This creates another market gamblers can play in.  It will be dominated by the inside players with dedicated computing setups, and superior information and intelligence, like the existing financial markets.  I don't know that it creates anything of value. It's a new gambling game. Central bank prints money, injects it into Wall Street, and it'll wind up here, and in other financial markets. Direct participants become richer, people with 401K's feel richer.  I don't know that it will  improve health care, education, housing, improve the standard of living of non-participants, or otherwise spark technological improvement. There's nothing particularly all that earth shattering  that's changed.  Some stocks are "growth stocks" that don't pay dividends.  Many more established companies often pay good dividends, and als Yes.  +1.  Although it should be noted you can still buy some of those original stocks.  Chevron dividends are like car payments.  Every year or so they are paying you a car.  Nice cars too.  All because of those old timey value stocks.  (The only ones Buffet buys, if you believe his investing strat.) Do feel free to point out where, specifically, I'm wrong. You can see the differentials in returns. I guess 1 and 2 percent returns on stocks is superseded by the expected appreciation. And just two more points: Linearity is good, and shares traded (effectively) as a real instead of an integer would probably be a good thing. But who votes the share? If a blockchain aftermarket is not endorsed by the corporation, then the shares get voted in the same old way: as integers. You can count 0.501 of a vote just as easily as you can count 0.501 of a share.  That's not really the problem. The biggest problem is lack of accountability.  I mean that's an intentional feature of most (all?) crypto currencies.. if accountability isn't added into crypto stocks then how do you even know who to get a vote from, or how many votes they should have?  Even with integer stocks that is a problem. Silicon Valley Library Tests Book-Returning Robot Created By Google After Amazon Increases Worker Wages, Whole Foods Responds By Cutting Worker Hours There's no sense in being precise when you don't even know what you're talking about. 		-- John von Neumann