In the 10 years since Bitcoin was created, a lot has happened to cryptocurrency. Do we understand crypto any better? Are we underestimating it? Bill Gates famously said: “We always overestimate the change that will occur in the next two years and underestimate the change that will occur in the next ten.” But if you remember that we tend to both overestimate in the near-term and underestimate in the long-term, it gives you a different perspective. Things look quite a bit different from a decade’s viewpoint in either direction. We see cryptocurrency companies growing from fledgling startups to supporting tens of millions of users. What if I told you that some cryptocurrency companies are as large as the most significant traditional finance companies? Would you believe me? The analysis shows that Coinbase, a favorite U.S. based cryptocurrency exchange, has amassed a user base of over 25 million. Compare that to Fidelity, the traditional investment management juggernaut, which has 27 million individual investor accounts. Those are big-time numbers for any company in any industry. Many write off cryptocurrency adoption as part of a self-fulfilling ecosystem that doesn’t impact people outside of enthusiasts and speculators. In earlier years, that could have been argued. Today, I think you would have difficulty making that case. Why? Because technology titans across multiple industries are not just integrating cryptocurrency, they are featuring it prominently. One example from the investments arena is Robinhood, which created a standalone cryptocurrency investing product, Robinhood Crypto, in early 2018. Then there is Square, headed by Twitter founder Jack Dorsey. Referencing Bitcoin in a call with Market Watch Dorsey said that “We do believe that this [Bitcoin] is a transformational technology for our industry, and we want to learn as quickly as possible.” Square added Bitcoin as a feature to its popular CashApp in early 2018, initially to select states, and later broadened access to all 50 states. Square further cemented its ambitions in cryptocurrency when it applied for a “cryptocurrency payment network” to be used between customers and merchants. The most innovative technology companies in the world adopting cryptocurrency is a considerable development. But there is one big domino, that when knocked over, will have the most significant impact on crypto adoption in the next decade: Wall Street going all-in. Bitcoin and cryptocurrency have a long way to go before realizing their wildest ambitions of dominating the internet and the global financial system. But few would have predicted we would have come this far a decade ago, and I suspect few comprehend how far crypto will go ten years from now. Alex is the Co-Founder and President of Zabo, a cryptocurrency banking application that let's you get paid in Bitcoin.