Here’s the lesson: If a blockchain can be hacked, no one is immune to the threat of cybercrime. And businesses are frequently exposed in unexpected ways. Because data breaches can incur enormous costs and greatly harm your company’s reputation, it’s imperative to do all you can to prevent them or mitigate the effects if they occur. Often, it’s difficult to know how to discuss this important issue with your team. As you work to prevent employee-related cybercrime at your company, keep these three basic principles in mind to encourage cybersecurity best practices: One of your first lines of defense against cybercrime should be human resources. This department can play a key role in raising employee cybersecurity awareness, as well as educating employees on safety measures. One of the best ways to assess your vulnerability is to try to hack into your own systems. This proactive approach, called ethical hacking, will undercover vulnerabilities before cybercriminals can exploit them. Good ethical hackers don’t just do one pass through your systems. Instead, they continually run through all scenarios and test the newest methods of attack against your defenses, a process known as penetration testing. That’s the only way to remain a step ahead of real threats. A comprehensive scan of your vulnerabilities should include trying to get through to critical systems by duping employees — just as cybercriminals would. As with other IT professionals, ethical hackers should be certified to ensure appropriate experience and credibility. Employ those with certifications from organizations such as InfoSec Institute or EC-Council. Of course, once you’ve uncovered chinks in your armor, you have to patch them as soon as possible. And you might be surprised about some of the biggest holes in your security. Employees’ devices can be another weak point for attack, particularly because these devices aren’t standardized or controlled by professionals within your IT department. Fortunately, there’s a simple solution: Invest in a firewall-as-a-service system that will allow your team to use phones securely at work. Cybersecurity must be a top priority for any company that wants to remain competitive in the years ahead. By looping in HR, working with ethical hackers, and patching the holes you inevitably find, you can stay one step ahead of the cybercriminals bent on hacking your systems at their weakest point — which is often your own employees. Brad is the editor overseeing contributed content at ReadWrite.com. He previously worked as an editor at PayPal and Crunchbase. You can reach him at brad at readwrite.com.