Investment advisors are often quick to state that data on past performance is no guarantee of future results. It is, however, still relevant to include historical data when analyzing assets and making forecasts in any financial market. The future remains uncertain, and since few investors have access to a crystal ball, data on past performance remains an integral part of the information needed for decision making in the world of investment. When the exchanges are not qualified the information can means that a cryptocurrency asset with very little active inflow from investors could have a large market cap nonetheless. The absence of meaningful data to use as input for investment decisions makes crypto investing more like gambling, and some potential investors in such markets are merely put off by the lack of reliable data and outright manipulation. Traditional markets like venture capitalism, equities, and real estate are also far from perfect. Financial data for these markets tend to cover the performance of assets over set periods and the time it takes compile performance reports means that investors do not have real-time data which could help them make time-sensitive decisions. In the cryptocurrency market, a typical example of aggregated financial data would encompass historical performance of crypto assets, the amount of investment in each asset, corresponding dates and how all the data relates to general market sentiment and major events. Investors furnished with such comprehensive data would be better positioned to make better trades. The benefit of mobile trading platforms like Acorns, Roobee and Stash are Generation Z & Y retail investors have access to accurate trading data and the ability to develop a low-cost diversified portfolio in a range of sectors. To provide credible and transparent investment more investment platforms need to record all the values and transactions on blockchain so no third parties and even founders may change the information. Eventually, the impact of blockchain-based aggregated data platforms will be more profound in the cryptocurrency market where it is common for various entities to churn out fabricated figures. Replacing misleading crypto performance metrics with blockchain-based aggregated data would give investors a view of the actual state of and fair value of cryptocurrency projects and bring about more transparency and effective investment. Every year an uncountable number of investment offerings are brought to the market, and each provides varying degrees of transparency and often the yield of the asset or investment is not natural for the public to locate. Integrating blockchain technology to financial products managers, transactions and performance outcomes will provide additional transparency. Investor confidence in various financial markets also stems from having access to comprehensive data and investors are likely to be more comfortable investing their funds in markets when they are well informed and knowledgeable. The same can be said for traditional finance as many millennials are extremely skeptical of financial institutions for a variety of valid reasons. Retail investors’ confidence in these markets could rise when blockchain-based financial aggregated data is made available to them, and the regained confidence could translate into greater trading volume and the arrival more sophisticated and institutional investors. Nikolaos Kostopoulos is a Fintech advisor incumbents with a focus on Capital Markets & asset tokenization. Nikolaos is a pioneer in the consensus industry since early 2015. He is an early adopter and enthusiastic evangelist for decentralised technology as a way to improve many aspects of the modern world. His Master’s thesis “Developing an optimal financial and regulatory governance mechanism for cryptocurrencies in the European Union” was among the very first academic papers to argue the need and the method for regulating cryptocurrencies in the European Union. Nikos is a frequent speaker at financial events related to regulation and Security Token Offerings.