Advertisement Supported by The court’s action, in a one-sentence order, means that the regulation will remain in force while challenges to it move forward in the courts. There were no noted dissents. Bump stocks work by harnessing a firearm’s recoil energy to allow it to keep firing after a single pull of the trigger. The Justice Department has said this transforms semiautomatic weapons into fully automatic machine guns. Under the regulation, Americans who own bump stocks have 90 days to destroy their devices or to turn them in to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives. Michael E. Hammond, a lawyer with Gun Owners of America, said the group “wouldn’t advocate that anyone violate the law.” But he added that the regulation may be hard to enforce. “My guess, from the states that have enacted bump stock bans, is that most of the 500,000 people that have bump stocks are not going to turn them in, if history is any indication,” Mr. Hammond said. “Bump stocks” are attachments that enable semiautomatic rifles to fire faster, almost like machine guns. Twelve of the rifles found in the hotel room of the Las Vegas gunman were fitted with the devices. Gun owners challenged the regulation in a federal trial court in Michigan, saying that federal law did not allow the executive branch’s action. They added that the regulation would require the destruction of devices worth more than $100 million. The panel acknowledged that the plaintiffs “will suffer irreparable harm.” But it said that “the public interest in safety supports denial of a stay pending appeal.” “The protection of the public and law enforcement officers from the proliferation of prohibited firearms is a bedrock foundation of federal firearms legislation,” he wrote, adding that the regulation “promotes that public interest by protecting the public from the dangers posed by machine guns prohibited by federal law.” The regulation has been challenged in other courts, too, but so far none of them have ruled for the plaintiffs. After a federal trial judge in Washington refused to enter a preliminary injunction, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit did issue a temporary stay of the regulation, but it applied only to the plaintiffs in the case before it. “No person,” their brief said, “should have to face the threat of felony prosecution and deprivation of their property due to the rushed and arbitrary time frame A.T.F. placed on these proceedings.” Advertisement