Apply today for our MS and Graduate Certificate programs. Good luck, future Huskies! Learn about our programs "We didn't know the answers to the problem, so we converted it to a nursing scientist to do research in the field starting with nurses" Read the Full Story Visit our new microsite featuring 75 nurses of influence. Learn about these pioneers and nominate a trailblazing nurse you think should be included in the final 100. Learn more More information Current high school sophomores and juniors who are interested in learning about the nursing field and how to get into nursing school are invited to apply to the UW School of Nursing Nurse Camp by April 5 Learn more The AAPPN honored UW School of Nursing Associate Professor, Elaine Walsh and UW School of Nursing alumna, Virginia "Ginni" Buccola, with awards at their annual conference this weekend. The American Association of Colleges of Nursing honored UW School of Nursing Professor, Brenda Zierler, PhD, RN, FAAN, with the Geraldine “Polly” Bednash Lectureship Award. Our school was ranked #1 among public schools that offer a DNP degree and was ranked #4 overall. Perigee Fund has made a major five-year commitment to support the creation of a post-graduate training program in infant and early childhood mental health at the Barnard Center. Feb.18-22, 2019, will be Nursing Now Week in Washington The UW School of Nursing is working with the state of Washington and other community partners to launch the Nursing Now Initiative here in Washington. The school is also a co-lead in launching Nursing Now in the United States. 2020 will be the ‘Year of the Nurse and Midwife’. Learn more about one of our amazing faculty members, Wendy Barrington. Congratulations to Department of Psychosocial and Community Health Professor Josephine Ensign! Join them at the lecture and learn about the Global Health Crisis from their first-hand experiences Congratulations to Biobehavioral Nursing and Health Informatics Professor Cindy Dougherty! One of our amazing Husky Nurses alumna has been awarded the Distinguished Alumni Veteran Award © 2019 University of Washington  |  Seattle, WA