CNET también está disponible en español. Don't show this again CEO Jon Von Tetzchner also calls for privacy regulation to block companies from tracking us online. Also coming soon: Vivaldi's email software. Vivaldi Technologies founder Jon von Tetzchner Jon Von Tetzchner doesn't need to crush Google Chrome. If he can get a few million people to use his Vivaldi browser, that should suffice. How configurable? In settings, you'll have to scroll to see all the options for controlling tabs, and that's just one of 17 pages for customization. He's betting enough people will like that approach that they'll start running his browser, with their searches producing about a dollar per person per year through search-engine partnerships. "We need a few million dollars to break even," Von Tetzchner said in an exclusive interview with CNET about his 45-person, volunteer-assisted startup. There's more to come, including an Android version of Vivaldi and a standalone email module that taps into services like Gmail. Both of those should arrive by the end of the year, Von Tetzchner said. He shared his thoughts on Vivaldi's products, privacy stance, and views about Google Chrome in an interview with CNET's Stephen Shankland. The following is an edited transcript. We're also not engaging in data collection, because that wouldn't fit with putting the user at the center. Vivaldi 2.4 adds a calculator, accessible from its quick-command system that can be triggered with a computer's F2 key or Cmd/Ctrl-E. We had this at Opera. It worked really well. They killed it. What is needed is regulation. Here in the US, there's not a lot of hope right now. There's more chance of the European Union doing something. Over time, people here will want to see a change. Search isn't the problem. The problem is that you're being followed wherever you go. The fact that you visit these sites and chat with these people and have these opinions is not something that should be noted anywhere. With tracking, the situation is different. We believe this should be regulated, but we may also offer more ways to block tracking in the future in the browser. If you do the calculation, we're basing our income on about $1 per user per year. We need a few million dollars to break even. We are a lean organization. First published March 30, 5 a.m. PT