Advertisement Supported by BEAUREGARD, Ala. — Days after ferocious tornadoes killed almost two dozen people and devastated block after block of eastern Alabama, officials warned Wednesday that the state should brace for the possibility of more trouble this weekend. “We have another storm system, very powerful, that will begin entering the state” on Saturday, Kevin Laws, a National Weather Service meteorologist, said at a news conference in the county where 23 people were killed on Sunday. “Most of the entire state’s going to be under a significant risk.” The Weather Service’s Storm Prediction Center issued a separate forecast that showed much of the South, including Alabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana and the Carolinas, in at least some jeopardy over the weekend. Meteorologists, who predicted Sunday’s outbreak with striking precision, are expected to refine their forecast in the coming days. Mr. Laws said there was a possibility that the eastern half of Alabama, which includes the communities that were hit hardest last weekend, would ultimately face “somewhat more of a minimal risk.” The Weather Service’s early warnings came on the morning that the local authorities announced that no one remained missing in the aftermath of Sunday’s outbreak, which spawned a series of tornadoes, including one that traveled for about 70 miles. “We are now confident that we have accounted for all of the individuals that we had unaccounted for,” said Sheriff Jay Jones of Lee County, where all of the deaths occurred. The county coroner, Bill Harris, said four people remained in intensive care units on Wednesday morning. President Trump, who approved a federal disaster declaration for Lee County on Tuesday, is expected to visit the region on Friday to survey the damage. And Gov. Kay Ivey opened her State of the State address on Tuesday night with a tribute to the victims. The consequences of the tornado came into greater focus on Wednesday, as Alabama Power estimated that 116 homes were so crippled that they could not receive electrical service. But officials like Mr. Harris said they believed the death toll from the tornado, the deadliest in the United States since 2013, was unlikely to rise. “We are still in a standby mode,” he said, “just on the outside chance that they find somebody, which is not likely.” Mr. Trump’s visit to the area on Friday is certain to call attention to the region’s plight, and residents said repeatedly this week they had already begun to turn their attention toward rebuilding efforts that are likely to stretch for months, at least. “We don’t know why it happened,” said Richard Brown Sr., the principal of Beauregard High School, where he has worked since 1971. “It’s just part of life. There are always some ups and downs and you have to take the good with the bad, and the good Lord is in charge.” Advertisement