Front page layout Site theme Sign up or login to join the discussions! But there was never any good reason to think the FTC could come close to replacing FCC oversight of broadband providers, and FTC Chairman Joseph Simons essentially confirmed as much in a speech last week. "The FTC is, principally, a law enforcement agency. It is not a sector regulator like the FCC," Simons said. The FTC can punish US companies for unfair or deceptive practices. But in regard to net neutrality, this simply means that ISPs must disclose any behavior that would have violated the old net neutrality rules. "Under Section 5 of the FTC Act, we may prosecute unfair or deceptive acts or practices... Simply stated, we have a strong interest in ensuring that companies stand by their promises to consumers," Simons said. The FTC would review whether ISPs keep their promises just as it reviews whether other companies keep their promises. "We would review ISPs' activities in the same way," Simons said. "For example, we could take action against ISPs if they block applications without adequately disclosing those practices or mislead consumers about what applications they block or how." How would the FTC handle throttling of websites or online services? Simons explained: To determine whether particular instances of throttling are deceptive, we would first evaluate what claims an ISP made to consumers about their services and how those claims are supported. We would look closely at any relevant research and evaluate the study's design, scope, and results and consider how a study relates to a particular claim. To evaluate whether a practice was unfair, we would consider whether the alleged throttling had countervailing benefits and whether there were reasonable steps consumers could have taken to avoid it. We would also consider consumer injury, the number of consumers affected, and the need to prevent future misconduct. With TracFone and AT&T, the alleged violation wasn't the throttling itself. The violation was the act of deceiving consumers. Carr's statement had some qualifiers, such as "reached agreements" and the word "unfairly" before "blocking." But he was clearly trying to give the public the impression that the same kinds of behavior previously outlawed by the FCC would still be barred in a post-net neutrality legal system. The FTC isn't the only antitrust enforcer. Businesses and individuals can bring lawsuits for violations of the Sherman Act, and antitrust lawsuits can also be brought by state attorneys general and the US Department of Justice. Perhaps Carr's theory could be tested in court even without FTC involvement, but winning a case against an ISP over blocking or throttling would be difficult at best if the ISP disclosed the blocking or throttling in advance. "I intend to use our authority aggressively to address violations of the laws we enforce, but there are key differences between conduct prohibited by the FCC's [now-repealed] Open Internet Order, and conduct that the FTC can reach now with our antitrust and consumer protection jurisdiction," Simons said. That's not true for something like paid prioritization, in which ISPs would charge websites or online services for priority access to end users. Paid prioritization was outlawed by the Obama-era FCC's net neutrality rules in part because it could make it difficult for startups to compete against large companies that can afford to pay ISPs for better access. But in other markets, paid prioritization is normal, Simons argued: Paid prioritization is a type of price discrimination, which is ubiquitous in the economy. For example, think about when you walk into grocery store. Some customers get lower prices because they cut out coupons. Others might get a seniors discount. Others might get 2 percent off with their credit card. Yet others get discounts because they have a loyalty card with that supermarket... think about the express toll lanes on interstates 95 and 66. Or think about Amtrak's Acela service to New York, which is faster and more expensive than the local trains. Clearly, our transportation authorities think that allowing people to pay more for faster service is at least sometimes beneficial. Simons allowed that ISP conduct including paid prioritization may be anti-competitive in some cases. "Where an ISP excludes certain content, applications, or services, we would engage in a fact-specific analysis to see whether that foreclosure harmed competition through raising rivals' costs or excluding competitors," he said. But it's clear that antitrust law and FTC enforcement is not a full replacement for the FCC's repealed net neutrality rules. While Simons called antitrust law "sufficiently flexible and dynamic to cover a wide range of activities," he said the laws are "limited to prohibiting conduct that is anti-competitive, not simply perceived to be unfair or discriminatory." Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox.