Advertisement Supported by New York Today It’s Monday. The Times’s Ashley Southall reports: Twenty thousand extra eyes are now watching police encounters with civilians in New York. The Police Department announced last week that uniformed officers patrolling neighborhoods, public housing developments and the transit system have been assigned body cameras. New York’s camera program is twice as large as any other police department’s in the country. Still, don’t expect the Police Department to release videos of every arrest or encounter anytime soon. The department has kept most of the footage away from the public despite promises from Mayor de Blasio and Police Commissioner James P. O’Neill to be more transparent. One reason had been a lawsuit brought by a police union, the Police Benevolent Association, that argued that judges, not the police commissioner, should make decisions about releasing videos. But two weeks ago, an appeals court threw out the suit and said the videos could be made public. The department, however, has yet to release any of the videos that were held up while the lawsuit was pending. Officials say they are grappling with a backlog of public disclosure requests. The window of opportunity for releasing footage may close when the union appeals to the state’s highest court. The Times’s Michael Wilson reports: John and Yoko. Marilyn and DiMaggio. Fay Wray and King Kong. Now add J-Lo and A-Rod to the list of famous New York City couples, with the announcement of their engagement over the weekend. “Have it here? That would be great!” said Paulie Carigliano, an assistant manager at Scavello’s on the Island, a catering hall on City Island in the Bronx. Ms. Lopez grew up near his family’s farm nearby, Mr. Carigliano said, and his restaurant would be ideal for the woman he still thinks of as a neighbor. “This place here is known for its food,” he said yesterday. “We don’t buy sauce in the can. We don’t buy cheese for the pizzas. The chef does everything from scratch. People rave.” The hall holds 300 guests “legally,” Mr. Carigliano said. “You could see the Manhattan skyline. They want to take pictures, all they have to do is go down the block. I would think this would be the best place for them to get married.” “You’ve been eating orchids your whole life,” Marc Hachadourian, a senior curator at the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, told me over the phone. I had just eaten some chocolate and wondered when, if ever, I had eaten a large, colorful flower. “You know when you eat really good vanilla ice cream, and there’s all those little black specks in it?” he asked. “Sure,” I said, downing more chocolate. “Vanilla beans aren’t from a bean,” Mr. Hachadourian said. “It’s actually the seed pod of an orchid.” He added that “vanilla orchid seed pods give you vanilla flavoring.” My expertise is clearly in chocolate, so I was in no position to question his knowledge of vanilla. Mr. Hachadourian, whose official title is director of glasshouse horticulture and senior curator of orchids, seems to delight in playfully needling people with facts about plants — orchids in particular. And this is Mr. Hachadourian’s season to dazzle. “When you say the word ‘orchids,’ you think the tropics and Hawaii,” Mr. Hachadourian said. I agreed. He said I should also think closer to home. “New York State has some of the highest numbers of native orchid species compared to any other state,” Mr. Hachadourian said. “It’s basically No. 3 or No. 4,” behind Florida and Alaska, and neck and neck with New Jersey. Which borough has the most native orchids? He guessed Queens or Brooklyn. It’s Monday — stop and smell the flowers. Dear Diary: I was biking west on 21st Street when I came to a barrier between Second and Third Avenues. Whatever, I thought. I’m on a bike. As I rode past the barrier, I noticed several police vans parked along one side of the street. The only sound was the click of a shutter. Looking around, I saw a photographer kneeling down and taking pictures of something I couldn’t see. I was continuing on when I had to stop suddenly. What looked like the entire 13th Precinct was standing there dressed in their finest, posing for what I figured was their annual photo. About 20 officers turned toward me. I swallowed nervously. They laughed and waved me on through. “Give it a good kick for us,” one of them yelled as I pedaled away. — Sydney Scott Advertisement