LAST CHANCE TO LEARN FOR JUST Redeem this offer by April 2nd DON'T PAY MORE Last chance! Do you want to become productive with C#? This beginner area is the perfect place to start. These C# tutorials are designed to give you everything you need to become a productive C# developer. By the end of this section, you’ll have a firm understanding of the C# language and valuable insights on how things work under the hood. by Scott Allen Sep 25, 2015 / 5h 21m 5h 21m Hello, and welcome to Pluralsight! My name is Scott Allen, and I want to give you a quick overview of my course, C# Fundamentals with Visual Studio 2015. It’s designed to help you learn the essential topics you need for developing with the C# programming language, and covers things building classes, programing with objects, and working with interfaces using the C# language. Along the way, you’ll be using C#, Visual Studio and .NET. When you’re done, you’ll be ready to to tackle your own projects in the C# programming language. From there, you can start exploring working with nulls in C#, as well as designing fluent APIs. I look forward to working with you on C# Fundamentals with Visual Studio 2015, here at Pluralsight. by Eric Fisher May 17, 2018 / 32m 32m Learn the basics of C# to create and run your first C# console application, which will accept user input and provide varying feedback based on that input. This interactive course was formerly known as Try C# on Code School. by Eric Fisher May 17, 2018 / 1h 7m 1h 7m Learn to work with classes, methods, groups of objects, loops, and method overloads to create a C# console application for tracking bands. This interactive course was formerly known as Keeping It Classy With C# on Code School. by Eric Fisher Jan 15, 2018 / 2h 5m 2h 5m In this project you will use the C# programming language to add new features to an existing grade book application. by Jason Roberts Sep 8, 2016 / 1h 25m 1h 25m Unexpected null values and NullReferenceExceptions can be a constant source of bugs resulting in wasted time and out of hours support callouts. In this course, Working with Nulls in C#, you're going to learn about the different ways that null values pop up in C# code and how to deal with them. First, you're going to learn the fundamentals of why you get null values and the difference between value and reference types. Next you'll learn how you can use the various C# operators to check for and manipulate nulls. Finally, you'll learn how to think about nulls at a higher abstraction level in your object-oriented code. By the end of this course, you'll understand the different types of objects in C#, how to correctly create nullable value types, how to use C# operators to work with nulls with fewer lines of code, and how to implement the Null Object pattern to remove the need to write repetitive null checking code. by Deborah Kurata Jan 27, 2016 / 3h 35m 3h 35m When building applications we often deal with groups of things: a user's preferences, a customer's orders, or a product's color choices. To implement these groups of things in C#, we use collections. And to get the most from collections, we need to leverage generics. This course covers how, when, why, and best practices for using C# collections and generics, including arrays, generic interfaces, LINQ, delegates, and Lambda expressions. Once you have a strong foundation with C#, you can now start fine tuning your skills to create code that is more maintainable, extensible and , object-oriented. The C# courses in this section will provide everything you need to know to become a C# pro. by Deborah Kurata Jul 8, 2014 / 3h 26m 3h 26m This course takes you through the principles and practices of object-oriented programming (OOP). The course provides you with the firm foundation in OOP that you need to progress to intermediate-level C# courses. It begins by showing you how to turn a set of words into a set of well-defined and related classes. Through demonstrations, it teaches you key object-oriented concepts such as abstraction, encapsulation, inheritance, polymorphism, and interfaces. by Jeremy Clark Dec 19, 2018 / 2h 23m 2h 23m Code that is easy to maintain, extend, and test is key to applications that move quickly to meet our users’ changing needs. In this course, C# Interfaces, you will learn how to use interfaces effectively to create flexible and maintainable applications. First, you will see the mechanics of exactly what interfaces are, and why we want to use them. Next, you will explore how to create your own interfaces to make it easy to change them or swap out functionality. Finally, you will delve into designing effective interfaces to make sure that you are getting the benefits that you need in your specific applications. When you are finished with this course, you will have a good understanding of interfaces and how you can use them effectively in your own applications. by Scott Allen Jul 28, 2016 / 4h 23m 4h 23m LINQ introduced radical changes to the C# language. In this course, LINQ Fundamentals you'll see features of the C# language that make LINQ work, as well as how to use LINQ effectively using practical examples. You'll start with seeing a demonstration of the power of LINQ along with some of the important features of the C# language for LINQ, including how to create and use extension methods and lambda expressions. Next, you'll focus on the behavior of LINQ queries and start to work with realistic data to learn how to filter, order, and project data. Finally, you'll see some demonstrations on how to use LINQ to XML as well as, how LINQ works with a remote datasource by using the Entity Framework against Microsoft SQL Server. By the end of this course, you'll be ready to process and query in-memory data, as well as work with XML and a SQL Server database. by Deborah Kurata May 9, 2014 / 4h 32m 4h 32m You will learn how to write clean, maintainable, and testable code when faced with constantly changing requirements, legacy issues, intensive time pressures, and a rapidly evolving environment. You will also learn how to keep that code great after maintenance activities, multiple developers, and the ravages of time. by Dan Wahlin Apr 26, 2013 / 3h 11m 3h 11m Events, delegates and lambdas play an important role in the .NET framework but can be difficult to understand as developers first get started with the C# language. If you’re interested in gaining a more thorough understanding of how these C# technologies work then you’re in the right place! This course focuses solely on events, delegates and lambdas and provides insight into how they can be used in your .NET applications using the C# language. by Elton Stoneman Dec 16, 2013 / 3h 9m 3h 9m Extension methods are a powerful C# feature which are underused and often misunderstood. In this course you’ll learn all about writing, using and organizing extension methods, how the CLR implements them and what scenarios they enable. We’ll build a library of key extension methods you can use in your own projects to make your code cleaner, safer and more maintainable. Whether you’re still learning C# or you’re a seasoned professional, the courses in this section will provide valuable insight into modern software development practices in C#. We'll cover asynchronous programming, how to unit test your code to insure correctness, and how to use dependency injection to create loosely coupled, maintainable applications. Finally, our “tips and traps” series will give you useful knowledge to make you more productive. by Filip Ekberg Mar 15, 2019 / 2h 22m 2h 22m Utilizing asynchronous principles is crucial for building fast and responsive applications. In this course, Getting Started with Asynchronous Programming in .NET, you’ll learn foundational knowledge to efficiently apply the asynchronous principles to build fast and solid applications. First, you’ll explore how the async and await keywords fit into your .NET applications, and how it ties together with the task parallel library. Next, you’ll discover how asynchronous programming is different from parallel programming and how to use the parallel extensions to perform fast computations, which utilizes all your available processing power. Finally, you’ll learn how to adapt in advanced scenarios, and where deeper knowledge of the internals may be required. When you’re finished with this course, you’ll have the skills and knowledge of how to apply the asynchronous programming principles in any type of .NET application. by Jason Roberts May 18, 2018 / 2h 2m 2h 2m MSTest V2 is the evolution of the original "in-box" testing framework from Microsoft and is now a cross platform, open source testing framework. In this course, Automated Testing with MSTest V2, you'll learn how to use the framework to create automated test to help check your code is working correctly. First, you'll discover how to use the various assert features such as checking numeric, string, and collection values. Next, you'll explore how to take control of the test execution lifecycle and also execute additional setup or cleanup code. Finally, you'll learn how to execute a test multiple times with data driven tests and also how to customize and extend the MSTest framework to create more maintainable and readable test code. By the end of this course, you'll know how to create readable, maintainable, and customized automated tests with MSTest V2. by Jeremy Clark Mar 5, 2019 / 2h 8m 2h 8m Tight coupling makes our code hard to change and test. In this course, "Getting Started with Dependency Injection in .NET", you will learn the foundational knowledge to break tight coupling with Dependency Injection. First, you will learn how to use constructor injection to create loosely-coupled code. Next, you will see how to snap those loosely-coupled pieces together in different ways to easily change functionality. Then, you will discover how easy it is to unit test code that uses dependency injection. Finally, you will explore some of the magic of dependency injection containers. When you are finished with this course, you will have the skills and knowledge of dependency injection needed to break tight coupling and write more maintainable code. by Simon Robinson May 15, 2015 / 3h 32m 3h 32m Learn how to use concurrent collections in multithreaded code! This course is a comprehensive introduction to the concurrent collections. It shows you how to use each of the main collection types: ConcurrentDictionary, ConcurrentQueue, ConcurrentBag, and ConcurrentStack. You'll learn the correct techniques for using these collections to avoid bugs such as race conditions, and also how to use BlockingCollection with the concurrent collections correctly in producer-consumer scenarios. The course rounds off with a look at some concurrent collection best practices. by Jason Roberts Aug 20, 2013 / 3h 57m 3h 57m Whether you're still learning C# or you already have some experience, it's sometimes hard to know what you don't know. This course is designed to short-circuit your C# learning and provides a whole host of useful information about the sometimes under-used or unknown features of both the C# language and the .Net framework. It's suitable for those who are brand new to C# as well as experienced developers looking to "round off" their C# skills and "fill in the gaps". by Jason Roberts Sep 18, 2013 / 2h 43m 2h 43m Whether you're still learning C# or you already have some experience, it's sometimes hard to know what you don't know. This is the follow-up course to C# Tips and Traps and is designed to further short-circuit your C# learning and provides a whole host of useful information about the sometimes under-used or unknown features of both the C# language and the .Net framework. It's suitable for those who are brand new to C# as well as experienced developers looking to "round off" their C# skills and "fill in the gaps". No prior C# knowledge or experience is needed. Some understanding of common programming concepts, such as variables and looping, will be helpful. Be sure to only enter offer codes separated by line breaks and does not include commas. * Required field