Despite all the fears over slowing global growth, inverting yield curves and a potential U.S. recession, the S&P 500 made an incredible comeback in the first quarter of 2019. The index's 13% first-quarter gain was its best quarter since 2009's second quarter. It can be difficult to track down value in a market that's so hot. However, the financial sector has consistently lagged the overall market and is actually down nearly 9% since the start of 2018, despite reporting 7.6% earnings growth last quarter. The financial sector now has the lowest forward price-earnings (P/E) multiple in the market.InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips  * 7 Stocks From Around the World That Beat U.S. Stocks Here are 15 financial sector stocks to buy in the second quarter, according to Bank of America. Financial Stocks to Buy: Affiliated Managers Group (AMG)Source: Shutterstock Affiliated Managers Group (NYSE:AMG) is like an exchange-traded fund of asset managers. Affiliated Managers is itself an asset manager that invests in other asset managers. The company holds stakes in traditional asset managers, including Yacktman, Third Avenue and Tweedy Browne. It also holds stakes in alternative managers, such as AQR, BlueMountain and Pantheon. Asset managers have been hit hard by a fee pricing war in recent quarters. Analyst Michael Carrier says Affiliated Manager's fourth quarter was weak, but its outlook and valuation are both attractive. He says outflows troughed in the fourth quarter. Given the company's strong organic cash flow growth and 6.7 forward earnings multiple, Carrier says AMG stock should outperform its peers. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $124 price target for AMG stock. BB&T (BBT)Source:  Via Seniorliving.orgBB&T (NYSE:BBT) is a regional U.S. bank, but it's far from a mom-and-pop business. BB&T is the sixth-largest U.S. bank by number of branches, and it will soon be much larger. Analyst Erika Najarian says BB&T has consistently improved its efficiency. In addition, she is projecting 2.6% revenue growth in 2019. Those growth projections include 3% loan growth and 2% balance sheet growth, both improvements from 2018. In February, BB&T completed a merger of equals with SunTrust (NYSE:STI) worth $28.2 billion. Najarian says Wall Street analysts don't fully appreciate the pro-forma earnings power of the combined company.  * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business Najarian is projecting $4.92 in 2020 earnings, about 4% above consensus. The companies expect the merger deal to close in the fourth quarter. In the meantime, BBT stock trades at a single-digit forward earnings multiple of just 9.5. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $58 price target for BBT stock. The firm also has the stock on its US1 list of top American stocks to buy. Citigroup (C)Source: Shutterstock The only one of the "big four" U.S. multinational banks with a "buy" rating and at least 15% upside to Bank of America's price target is Citigroup (NYSE:C). Citigroup stock currently trades at a forward earnings multiple of just 7.1 and roughly a 20% discount to book value. Given Citi's solid execution of late, Najarian says the stock has a clear path to eliminating its valuation discount relative to peers. She says management can't control how the market perceives risk in a slowing global economy. However, if Citigroup improves its efficiency ratio in 2019, Najarian says investors will be forced to take notice of the stock's value. In addition to the "buy" rating, Bank of America has a $76 target for C stock. Citizens Financial GroupSource: Shutterstock Citizens Financial Group (NYSE:CFG) is a U.S. regional bank with more than 1,200 branches across 11 different states. Najarian says CFG stock offers the single best value of any U.S. regional bank stock. At a forward earnings multiple of just 7.6, Najarian says only Citigroup is a better value than CFG in the financial sector. In addition to the compelling value, Bank of America's 7% revenue growth estimate is best among all regional banks by a wide margin. Najarian says the market is discounting credit concerns too steeply.   * 4 Top Marijuana Penny Stocks to Take Seriously in 2019 But even if CFG stock continues to trade at a discount to peers, she says CFG stock has significant upside from current levels. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $41 price target for CFG stock. Comerica (CMA)Source: Shutterstock Comerica (NYSE:CMA) is another U.S. regional bank stock that Bank of America likes in 2019. Comerica's operations are primarily targeted in the Texas, California and Missouri markets. After meeting with company management in March, Najarian says investors don't need to be concerned about a pause in Federal Reserve interest rate hikes. Comerica's business is more sensitive to interest rates than any other regional bank Bank of America covers. Fortunately, Najarian says new client growth, attractive valuation and an impressive credit profile should help support the stock. She says balance sheet flexibility provides an opportunity to increase buybacks, drive net interest margins and grow earnings per share. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $93 price target for CMA stock. Hartford Financial Services (HIG)Source: Shutterstock Hartford Financial Services (NYSE:HIG) is an insurance and financial services leader with diversified property and casualty insurance products. In the most recent quarter, Hartford reported a solid earnings beat and announced a $1 billion buyback program.Analyst Jay Cohen says investors can expect a solid return on equity of 13% over the next two years. He says HIG stock will likely continue to trade at a discount to peers given its large exposure to the risky workers' comp business. In addition, he says there are additional risks involved in executing Hartford's $2.1 billion acquisition of specialty insurer Navigators.  * The Elite 8 Stocks to Buy for Massive Outperformance Despite the risks, Cohen says Hartford's 28% total return potential and its 9.1 forward earnings multiple makes the stock a safe bet for long-term investors. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $59 price target for HIG stock. KeyCorp (KEY)Source: Shutterstock KeyCorp (NYSE:KEY) is a U.S. regional bank with 1,300 branches spread out over 13 different states. Najarian says investors need to see KeyBanc execute its current financial plan without additional interruptions or deviations, such at its January acquisition of online lender Laurel Road. Those types of acquisitions create noise in the company's financials. They also make it difficult for investors to get comfortable with the company's true trajectory. With a forward earnings multiple of 7.7, Najarian says KEY is one of the cheapest stocks she covers. She says the company's combination of growth potential, cost-cutting opportunities, and capital return capacity is exactly what investors are looking for. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $19 price target for KEY stock. Lincoln National (LNC)Source: Shutterstock In 2018, life insurer Lincoln National (NYSE:LNC) reported its best annuity sales of the past five years. Cohen says the solid number is an indication that the annuity business has finally stabilized. Looking ahead, he says Lincoln's impressive execution and consistent capital return should help drive the stock higher. The stock currently trades at a forward earnings multiple of just 5.6. That steep discount to the rest of the market may be due to investor concerns over LNC's high leverage to interest rates. The Federal Reserve recently put its rate hikes on pause for at least the remainder of 2019.  * 7 Stocks From Around the World That Beat U.S. Stocks However, de-risking measures taken in the fourth quarter could result in expansion of its miniscule 5.6 forward earnings multiple over time. Lincoln national has been diversifying its earnings and shifting its revenue sources to improve its revenue quality. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $74 price target for LNC stock. MetLife (MET)Source: Shutterstock When it comes to life insurance stocks, Cohen says it's time for investors to get MetLife (NYSE:MET). MET reported a disappointing earnings miss in the fourth quarter. But Cohen says a deeper dive into the company's numbers reveals a business well-positioned for long-term growth. MetLife took advantage of share price weakness in the fourth quarter by repurchasing $1.2 billion of shares, about 50% more than Bank of America had anticipated. Cohen says accounting and control issues that plagued the company in 2017 are now in the past. In addition, the spin-off of Brighthouse and the appointment of a new CEO mark a new era for the company.Cohen says the new MetLife should eventually be awarded a higher multiple than its current forward PE of just 6.9. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $53 price target for MET stock. Morgan Stanley (MS)Source: Shutterstock Brokers and asset managers have been under pressure due to a pricing war that has taken a major bite out of fee income. However, Carrier says Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS) and BlackRock (NYSE:BLK) stood out as two of the best-positioned companies following earnings season. Carrier says Morgan Stanley is priced roughly in line with book value, an extremely low valuation given the company's fundamental performance. Bank of America is projecting 12% ROE in 2019. Carrier's 2019 and 2020 EPS estimates are also 5% and 7% above consensus, respectively. A forward earnings multiple of 7.7 limits downside. Additional cost cuts, rising net interest income and potential acquisitions could also help drive upside.  * 7 Weak Blue-Chip Stocks to Trim Immediately Morgan Stanley announced a $900 million buyout of wealth management cloud services company Solium Capital in February. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $51 price target for MS stock. Prudential (PRU)Source: Chris Bickham via FlickrLife insurance giant Prudential Financial (NYSE:PRU) reported a solid fourth quarter given difficult market conditions. Cohen says there is risk to Prudential's domestic business given its exposure to volatile equity markets. However, a recovering annuity market and pension de-risking demand should help support domestic earnings. In addition, despite historically low international interest rates, Cohen says investors can expect modest earnings growth and mid-teens ROEs internationally. Cohen says PRU stock will likely continue to trade at a discount to peers due to its equity market exposure. However, he says that valuation discount is currently much too large given Prudential's forward PE of just 6.6. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $110 price target for PRU stock. Charles Schwab (SCHW)Source: Mike Mozart via Flickr (Modified)Online broker Charles Schwab (NYSE:SCHW) has taken a beating in the past year as the ETF fee war ramped up. After cutting commissions on ETF trades from $8.95 to $6.95 back in 2017, Schwab quickly followed up by matching competitors' online trading fees of just $4.95. In February, Schwab announced it was doubling its number of commission-free ETFs. Despite the fee pressures, Carrier says organic growth and client engagement have been strong. In addition, the company has a healthy balance sheet.  * 7 Stocks Still Worth Buying at 52-Week Highs It's 7% market share leaves plenty of room for further penetration. Carrier says Schwab's net asset growth has been impressive given the low-interest environment. SCHW stock trades at a forward earnings multiple of 13.7 but a PEG ratio of just 0.7. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $53 price target for SCHW stock. SBV Financial Group (SIVB)Analyst Ebrahim Poonawala recently spent three days meeting with the management team of U.S. regional bank SVB Financial Group (NYSE:SIVB). Poonawala says investors are overly concerned about how the company could weather a potential economic downturn. He says SVB would actually outperform during a downturn given the bank's below-average credit risk. In fact, Poonawala says SVB could still potentially grow EPS even in an environment of falling interest rates. SIVB stock currently trades roughly in-line with its small-cap banking peers at a forward PE of 9.7. Poonawala says the stock should be trading at roughly a 10% premium to peers given the advantages mentioned above. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $280 price target for SIVB stock.  State Street (STT)Source: Garrett A. Wollman - The Archives @ BostonRadio.org via Wikimedia (Modified)State Street (NYSE:STT) is a global trust bank with operations in more than 100 countries around the world. Carrier says net interest income growth will drop from 15.9% in 2018 to just 5.9% in 2019. However, operating expenses will decline 4.7%. In addition, Bank of America estimates customer deposits will edge slightly higher by 0.6% after restructuring dropped deposits by 13.8% in 2017 and 15.3% in 2018. Carrier says the global backdrop is mixed at best.  * 3 Tech Stocks Getting Ready to Make a Run for It But he likes State Street's improved efficiency, generous capital returns and a compelling forward earnings multiple of 8.7. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $80 price target for STT stock. SunTrust (STI)It will likely be several quarters until the BB&T merger is complete. Najarian says Suntrust (NYSE:STI) stock is still worth owning in the meantime. At the time the deal was announced, it was worth about $62.85 per STI share. However, since it is an all-stock deal, the higher BBT stock goes, the more valuable the buyout gets. STI investors receive 1.295 shares of BBT for each share of STI. Given Najarian's $58 price target for BBT, it's easy to see why she likes STI stock currently trading at under $58. Bank of America has a "buy" rating and $74 price target for STI stock. More From InvestorPlace  * 2 Toxic Pot Stocks You Should Avoid   * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business   * 8 Genomic Testing Stocks That Can Ease the Sting of Theranos   * 7 Weak Blue-Chip Stocks to Trim Immediately Compare Brokers The post 15 Stocks to Buy Leading the Financial Charge appeared first on InvestorPlace. Investing.com - Stocks surged Monday, led by financials on the back of higher U.S. Treasury yields as upbeat manufacturing data from the U.S. and China eased investor worries about slowing global growth. The deal, to be financed by PIMCO, is expected to be announced on Tuesday, the source said.  The portfolio comprises residential mortgages and unsecured personal loans taken by U.K. taxpayers during the financial crisis of 2008.  Credit Suisse is said to be advising UK Asset Resolution, an agency overseen by Britain's Treasury, on the deal, Sky News, which first reported the news, said. Citigroup and the world's biggest bond investor PIMCO are putting the finishing touches to a deal to buy a 5 billion pound loan portfolio from UK Asset Resolution, a source familiar with the matter told ... Announcement: Moody's announces completion of a periodic review of ratings of Citigroup Inc.  New York, March 28, 2019 -- Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") has completed a periodic review of the ratings of Citigroup Inc. and other ratings that are associated with the same analytical unit.  The review was conducted through a portfolio review in which Moody's reassessed the appropriateness of the ratings in the context of the relevant principal methodology(ies), recent developments, and a comparison of the financial and operating profile to similarly rated peers. Another round of earnings reports is fast approaching.  Particularly interesting to observe will be the financial services sector.  The large banks will begin to share their financial results and offer their outlook for the remainder of the year in a few weeks. Citigroup’s consumer division is on course to miss its 2020 financial targets, adding to investor concerns about the direction of the third-largest US bank by assets.  Citigroup executives express confidence that the division this year will overcome challenges ranging from brutal competition in the card business to an undersized US branch network for an ostensibly national bank.  This month the consumer head, Stephen Bird, received the lowest score among his colleagues for financial performance in the bank’s annual proxy statement. Want to participate in a research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and earn a $60 gift card! The big shareholder groups in Citigroup Inc. (NYSE:C) have power over the company. Generally speaking, as a company grow... With stocks on the rise, the environment is ideal for new IPOs. Today we definitely got evidence of this with the Lyft (NASDAQ:LYFT) offering. The company priced its shares at $72, raising about $2.2 billion. So far in early trading, Lyft stock is up 22%.The company is one of the largest players in the fast-growing ride-hailing market. Last year, the company posted revenues of $2.2 billion, up from $1.1 billion.But of course, there are still other new IPOs ready to hit the markets. And it's important to keep in mind that the Lyft deal could overshadow them.InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips  * 7 Mid-Cap Growth Stocks That Could Be the Next Amazon or Netflix So what are these deals? Well, let's take a look at four that will launch within the next week or so … Upcoming IPOs: NGM BiopharmaceuticalsSource: Shutterstock Founded in 2008, NGM Biopharmaceuticals is a clinical-stage biotech company that is developing a variety of treatments, such as for liver, cardio-metabolic oncologic and ophthalmic diseases.According to the company: "Our process pairs a research approach that generates novel insights into pathways demonstrating powerful biological effect with the expertise in protein and antibody engineering to transform those insights into product candidates. We then rapidly advance the program to evaluate the effect of these product candidates on biomarkers of disease or target activity in order to enable early demonstration of human proof of concept."Currently, the company has seven product candidates. And as for the lead, it is NGM282, which will go into Phase 2B trials soon. The drug is focused on non-alcoholic steatohepatitis or NASH.A key for NGM Biopharmaceuticals is the collaboration with Merck (NYSE:MRK), which the company recently extended by two years. The deal involves up to $20 million in R&D as well as milestone payments. Although, MRK did terminate its license for NGM's GDF15 program (its focused on obesity).Regarding the IPO, NGM plans to issue 6.7 million shares at a range of $14 to $16 and to list on the Nasdaq under the symbol of NGM. The lead underwriters include Goldman Sachs, Citi and Cowen. Upcoming IPOs: RuhnnSource: Shutterstock Ruhnn has built the leading platform for so-called KOLs, or key opinion leaders, in China. These are people who are also known as influencers -- that is, they can have much power to impact fashion and culture via social media. Of course, they also have a big impact on commerce. So Ruhnn's platform connects its KOLs -- which account for 148.4 million fans -- with brands, online retailers and manufacturers.Growth has certainly been robust. From 2017 to 2018, revenues jumped from RMB577.9 to RMB947.6. Although, the company continues to lose money.Yet the market opportunity looks bright. According to Ruhnn's S-1, the spending on KOL facilitators is forecasted to grow at a 38.9% CAGR (compound annual growth rate) to RMB200.9 billion by 2022.  * 7 Weak Blue-Chip Stocks to Trim Immediately As for the IPO, Ruhnn plans to issue 10 million shares at a range of $11.50 and to $13.50 and to list on the Nasdaq under the ticker of RUHN. The lead underwriters include Citi and UBS. Upcoming IPOs: Silk Road MedicalSource: Shutterstock Silk Road Medical is a medical device company that helps to reduce the risk of stroke. The company's approach is called transcarotid artery revascularization, or TCAR, which is minimally invasive and leverages innovative endovascular techniques.Note that the company has received FDA approvals and obtained Medicare coverage. As of last year, there were 4,600 procedures performed for TCAR. From 2017 to 2018, revenues soared by 142% to $34.6 million.Silk Road Medical estimates that there are 4.3 million people who suffer from carotid artery disease in the United States and there were 427,000 new diagnoses in 2018. Based on this, the company estimates the market opportunity at about $2.6 billion.In terms of the IPO, Silk Road Medical plans to issue 4.7 million shares at a range of $15 to $17 and list on the Nasdaq under the ticker of SILK. The lead underwriters on the offering include JPMorgan (NYSE:JPM) and Bank of America (NYSE:BAC). Upcoming IPOs: Tradeweb MarketsSource: Shutterstock Founded over 20 years ago, Tradeweb Markets operates online marketplaces for asset managers, hedge funds, central banks, and other financial services firms. The trading involves a variety of asset classes like equities, money markets and credit.Last year, the total trading volume was over $549 billion for over 40 products. During this period, revenues hit $684.4 million, up 21.6% and net income came to $101 million.With the IPO, Tradeweb will be in a better position to pull off M&A deals. But this will likely be more than just capturing market share. Keep in mind that the company has been focused on bolstering its predictive analytics capabilities, as seen with the acquisition of CodeStreet in 2016.  * 8 Genomic Testing Stocks That Can Ease the Sting of Theranos The Tradeweb IPO will be one of the year's largest, with the expected amount raised to be nearly $700 million. The company will list on the NASDAQ under the ticker of TW and the lead underwriters include JPMorgan, Citi, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley (NYSE:MS).Tom Taulli is the author of High-Profit IPO Strategies, All About Commodities and All About Short Selling. Follow him on Twitter at @ttaulli. As of this writing, he did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities. More From InvestorPlace  * 2 Toxic Pot Stocks You Should Avoid   * 8 Genomic Testing Stocks That Can Ease the Sting of Theranos   * 4 Pot Stocks That Could Be Fizzling Out   * 7 Mid-Cap Growth Stocks That Could Be the Next Amazon or Netflix Compare Brokers The post 4 Upcoming IPOs to Watch That Aren't Named Lyft appeared first on InvestorPlace. As prices scaled new highs in the first quarter, Saxo Bank A/S, Commerzbank AG and UBS Group AG were among banks warning of the potential for substantial pullbacks.  “Much of palladium’s doubling in price over the last eight months was driven by supply concerns, and these are well-explored,” Michael McCarthy, chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty, said in an email. There was a time not too long ago when Wells Fargo (NYSE:WFC) was envied for its impressive growth results. But this ended in January 2018. It turned out that their tactics were too aggressive and even criminal. WFC managers were caught forcing customers into accounts they didn't need or authorize for the sake of beating performance metrics.Source: Mike Mozart via Flickr (Modified) Since then, the legislators have been on Well Fargo management to eliminate the practice and atone for their sins. The bank was able to stop the questionable practices, but the atonement is the tough part. WFC stock is now 27% below its early-2018 highs. Politicians, including Elizabeth Warren, have been relentless in their attacks on WFC and calling for the resignation of its CEO. Well, yesterday they got their wish. WFC announced that CEO Tim Sloan will step down and that the company's general counsel, C. Allen Parker, would take his place until they find a permanent, outside  replacement.And therein lies the opportunity. WFC stock is cheap and has technical support below it. It also has technical reasons for a nice rally with more upside potential than downside risk.InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading Tips  * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business Since this time it looks like the replacement CEO will be an outsider, political pressure is likely to ease as well. There are a lot of institutions and investors who do not invest in companies when they are at odds with legislators. This would be one less thing for traders to worry about.Historically, Wells Fargo stock carried a premium to other bank stocks, but that was due to its great results. Since the public found out those results were inflated, that premium is gone.So now WFC is as cheap as the other bank stocks selling at an 11x trailing P/E ratio and 1.3x price to book value. So just like most other U.S. money centers, investors are vaulting WFC almost at its liquidation value. From that perspective, WFC's issues have just left it leaner and less mean. The crisis took all of the relative froth out of the WFC stock.Furthermore, banks stocks in general have been on sale for over a year. They have not been able to sustain any rallies. The Financial Select Sector SPDR Fund (NYSEARCA:XLF) is down 6% in the last 12 months while the S&P 500 is up 9%. Clearly they have some catch up to do once some of the macro uncertainties abate.All of these factors limit WFC stock's downside risk -- making it a good time to buy. I consider this to be a long-term investment in a premier bank that will eventually work its way back to the top. Trading WFC StockWFC is rallied initially on last night's news. But that rally has already faded -- it was likely just a relief pop. Those tend to be temporary.In addition to its specific problems, WFC stock has been suffering from the fierce rally bond prices that affected all bank stocks. This was caused by the US Federal Reserve uber dovish statement. They caused a crash in yields and that typically drags banks stocks down with it.However, if the bulls can manage to turn this around and bid WFC up to $52.50 per share in the coming days, they would trigger a bullish pattern. This would invite momentum buyers to target $57 per share. There will be resistances along the way at $51.50, $55 and $55.80 per share.In light of the recent leadership change, I bet that there will be many who want to also own WFC for the long term. But don't just take my word for it, the experts on Wall Street agree that there is much more upside.WFC is trading well below their average price target. Moreover, half of the analysts who cover the stock rate it as a HOLD. Maybe the new CEO will spur some of them to upgrade the stock to BUY.  * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business Given the current macroeconomic and geopolitical uncertainties that loom, it would be prudent to take half a position to start. This would leave me room to add more on pullback.Nicolas Chahine is the managing director of SellSpreads.com. As of this writing, he did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities. You can follow him as @racernic on Twitter and Stocktwits. More From InvestorPlace  * 2 Toxic Pot Stocks You Should Avoid   * 8 Genomic Testing Stocks That Can Ease the Sting of Theranos   * 4 Pot Stocks That Could Be Fizzling Out   * 7 Mid-Cap Growth Stocks That Could Be the Next Amazon or Netflix Compare Brokers The post Buy the C-Suite Shuffle in Wells Fargo Stock appeared first on InvestorPlace. While prices typically ease at this time of year as mild weather in the northern hemisphere crimps demand, a boom in output of the heating and power-plant fuel is exacerbating the slump.  The crash comes as the world’s biggest energy companies are set to gather at the LNG2019 conference in Shanghai next week, with many considering whether to move forward with a wave of massive, multibillion-dollar liquefied natural gas export projects.  Global trade is already shifting as lower prices wipe out the economics of sending U.S. gas to Asia and boost Europe’s appeal as a market. While Jefferies (JEF) witnesses a decline in revenues in the first quarter, lower expenses support its performance to some extent. By Charley Blaine The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: JPMorgan, Disney, Citigroup, PNC Financial and Twitter The Dow gained 117 points, or 0.5%, by 9:40 AM ET (13:40 GMT), while the S&P; 500 rose 11 points, or 0.4%, and the tech-heavy Nasdaq composite was up 42 points, or 0.6%. Commission-free trading for ETFs and new-issue U.S. Treasuries for Citigold Clients Citi, in partnership with Imperial College Business School has launched  its latest Digital Money Index1.  The index, now in its sixth  year, tracks 84 countries in terms of their development of digital money  readiness.  For the first time, the report compares historical data collated over  the last five years, rather than year on year, concluding a 5.5%  improvement in overall digital money readiness for the 84 countries  tracked. By Geoffrey Smith Investors need to be prepared for more days like this, Jim Cramer warned his Mad Money viewers Wednesday.  The IPO cycle is playing out just as Cramer had feared, and we're only just getting started.  Cramer explained that this week's debut of ride-sharing service Lyft is creating a frenzy among institutional investors, all clamoring for a slice of the $2.2 billion deal that's already seeing share prices rise beyond expectations. It's the lightning round, so you can't wax all that philosophic, but you could read the answer on my face: total dismay and a wish that I didn't really have it in the portfolio and didn't want to have to justify the stock.  Except that the "book," the book that we were all taught to understand through years and years of training, says that if you believe that the book value is scrubbed clean, if you believe that, in truth, there is that much cash on hand, then you would be NUTS to sell it because you will eventually be rewarded with a higher price.  Now Citigroup is particularly inexpensive, trading at about a three dollar discount to the price it would be if they just closed the doors. Citigroup (C) closed the most recent trading day at $60.73, moving -0.8% from the previous trading session. An Italian administrative court  has rejected a request from Citibank to block the  delisting of shares in dairy group Parmalat from the Milan  bourse, court documents seen by Reuters showed on Wednesday.  Parmalat's main shareholder Sofil is seeking to take the  Parma-based group private after raising its stake to 95.8  percent and buying out minority shareholders.  The move is opposed by Citibank, which is seeking 345  million euros ($389 million) from Parmalat as compensation in a  lawsuit and could receive the sum in the form of shares. Jim Cramer breaks down why it's illogical to sell the bank's stock but emotionally very hard to own.