Have Watchlists? Log in to see them here or sign up to get started. There are currently no items in this Watchlist. Create a list of the investments you want to track. Something went wrong while loading Watchlist. Visit a quote page and your recently viewed tickers will be displayed here. Bank stocks rallied as the yield curve went back to normal and in response to better-than-expected economic news. Cowen & Co.’s Vivien Azer pioneered tracking cannabis companies for investors. How she sees the business evolving and why she likes Aurora Cannabis, Canopy Growth, and Tilray. Global growth worries were back in the spotlight as investors nervously eye the yield curve. Citigroup analyst is the latest on Wall Street to rein in his expectations for the energy company after a hot start to the year. Interest rates are likely staying in a trading range in the short-term, and that is good news for dividend stocks. Financial stocks were broadly lower Friday, with the sector headed for a fourth-straight loss, as the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield dropped to a 15-month low in the wake of the Federal Reserve's downbeat economic outlook and disappointing eurozone data. The SPDR Financial Select Sector ETF  shed 1.3%, with 67 of 68 components trading lower, and has not dropped 4.4% over the past four sessions. Among the ETF's most-active components, shares of Bank of America Corp.  lost 1.4%, Citigroup Inc.  gave up 2.4%, J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  slid 0.9% and Regions Financial Corp.  slumped 3.1%. Lower long-term interest rates can hurt bank profits, as the spread between what the banks earn on longer-term assets, such as loans, and what they pay to fund the assets with shorter-term liabilities, narrow. The financial ETF has lost 7.1% over the past 12 months, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average  has gained 7.9%. Financial stocks fell Friday, and were the only sector of the S&P 500's  11 sectors to be losing ground, as Treasury yields extending declines amid growing concerns of a slowing economy. The SPDR Financial Select Sector ETF  declined 0.4%, and has now lost 3.2% amid a 3-session losing streak. Among some of the financial ETF's most heavily weighted components, shares of J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  fell 1.8% to pace the Dow Jones Industrial Average's  decliners, Bank of America Corp.  shed 1.4%, Citigroup Inc.  slid 1.0%, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  gave up 0.3% and Wells Fargo & Co.  lost 1.2%. Meanwhile, the yield on the 10-year Treasury yield declined 1.4 basis points to a 14-month low of 2.451%, in the wake of the Federal Reserve's dovish message, in which the central bank cut its outlook for economic growth and inflation, as well as its projections for interest-rate hikes to none from two. Lower Treasury yields can hurt bank profits, as they narrow the spread between what banks earn on longer-term assets, like loans, that are funded by shorter-term liabilities. Bayer‘s liabilities could grow after a West Coast jury finds that the German company’s weedkiller likely triggered cancer. Citibank  was fined $25 million by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency for violating the Fair Housing Act. The regulator said Tuesday that the bank had "certain control weaknesses" in its Relationship Loan Pricing program which promised to provide a credit on closing costs or interest rate reductions to borrowers. But the bank did not provide some borrowers with either benefit, and those borrowers "were adversely affected on the basis of their race, color, national origin, or sex." The bank has initiated and mostly completed a plan to reimburse all customers who did not receive the benefit, the OCC said in a release. In addition, it will provide reimbursement to approximately 24,000 customers of approximately $24 million. Citi shares were up nearly 1% mid-afternoon. We now know how long investors’ memory is—10 years. That’s how long it took CEO compensation at six big U.S. banks to climb back above the level it reached in 2008. Investment bankers across Wall Street are tripping over themselves, and sometimes each other, to win business advising smaller companies on deals—assignments they would have scoffed at a few years ago. A decline in volatility contributed to expectations for weaker trading results at banks in the first quarter. An Italian court ruled in favor of Parmalat’s owner in a long-standing dispute with Citigroup, which has argued that it was a victim of the dairy company’s massive fraud, which is still reverberating 15 years later. Some of the companies with shares expected to trade actively in Tuesday’s session include McDonald’s, Canopy Growth, Nike and Red Hat Citigroup is starting a consumer-payments business, joining its biggest rivals and a host of financial-technology startups jockeying for position in the hottest corner of banking. Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at The Economic Outlook Group, was the most accurate forecaster for 2018 in The Wall Street Journal’s monthly survey. The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission recommended a $1.2 million fine for London-based Citigroup Global Markets. The card will charge no fees, pay daily cash rewards and sync with consumers’ iPhones to analyze their spending. China is becoming harder for investors to ignore and may soon be home to the world’s second-largest bond market. Bank stocks were pummeled Friday for a third consecutive day amid heightened investor angst over the outlook for the global economy. Friday’s downturn in stock prices is having some modest spillover effects in the corporate-bond market as traders react to falling Treasury yields and the latest bad economic data out of Europe. Investors are hanging on to bonds issued as part of Puerto Rico’s massive restructuring effort, a sign of confidence in the fiscally troubled island’s prospects. Lender stocks fell broadly Thursday, their second straight day of declines, after the Federal Reserve signaled caution on U.S. economic growth. The paper’s “fact checkers” adopt a novel view of government assistance. Managers at Goldman Sachs Group will be required to interview two diverse candidates for any open job, a push the firm hopes will change its heavily white, male workforce. Steinhoff International said a probe into accounting irregularities at the South African furniture retailer found that former executives inflated profits and asset values over an extended period of time. Hong Kong’s market regulator banned UBS from the most senior role on initial public offerings for a year, fining the Swiss bank and three rivals $100.2 million in total for cutting corners on IPOs. American Express has weathered the battle for lavish rewards, but it is increasingly exposed to credit risk. Parliament votes Tuesday to ease the U.K.’s exit from the EU, but some in the financial industry haven’t waited to forge their own path—moving offices and billions of dollars to competing financial centers elsewhere in Europe. Wells Fargo remains at sharp odds with its government overseers. How sharp should come into focus Tuesday, when CEO Timothy Sloan appears before a House Financial Services Committee. Investment bankers across Wall Street are tripping over themselves, and sometimes each other, to win business advising smaller companies on deals—assignments they would have scoffed at a few years ago. My Dividend Growth Portfolio: Q1 2019 Summary 15 Stocks to Buy Leading the Financial Charge The Best Dividend Stocks To Buy In April A decline in volatility contributed to expectations for weaker trading results at banks in the first quarter. 4 Upcoming IPOs to Watch That Aren’t Named Lyft Buy the C-Suite Shuffle in Wells Fargo Stock While Jefferies (JEF) witnesses a decline in revenues in the first quarter, lower expenses support its performance to some extent. 7 Stocks Still Worth Buying at 52-Week Highs The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: JPMorgan, Disney, Citigroup, PNC Financial and Twitter Despite several near-term concerns, investors' focus on expansion strategy of banks is a catalyst for the stocks. Today&#39;s Research Daily features new research reports on 16 major stocks, including JPMorgan (JPM), Disney (DIS) and Citigroup (C). Bolsa de Valores de Lima Offers New Securities Lending Platform for Institutional Clients Looking to Invest in Peru Citi offers Citigold clients digital planner, commission-free ETF trading Citigroup (C) closed the most recent trading day at $60.73, moving -0.8% from the previous trading session. An Italian court ruled in favor of Parmalat’s owner in a long-standing dispute with Citigroup, which has argued that it was a victim of the dairy company’s massive fraud, which is still reverberating 15 years later. Citigroup's (C) new service will offer merchants access to the payment network through a single platform, leveraging its on-the-ground presence, expertise and relationships with payment providers. Citigroup (C) intends to increase its wealth-management clients in Asia Pacific this year by 10% on rising number of client advisers and digital offerings. These stocks make good sense for growth portfolios looking to add solid companies that have the potential for good moves higher over the rest of 2019. Banking's Hottest Business: Apple And Citigroup Are Involved Mobile Wallet and Payment Technologies: Global Markets FLIR SYSTEMS, INC. (NASDAQ:FLIR) Files An 8-K Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement Actor Eugenio Derbez to Voice Multicultural Spot for Chrysler Pacifica Marketing Campaign Option-trading opportunities on Bank of America Corp., BlackBerry Ltd., Citigroup Inc., Celgene Corp., and The Walt Disney Co. Vanguard Natural Resources, Inc. Files for Chapter 11 Protection StoneCo Ltd. Announces Launch of Proposed Follow-on Offering of Class A Common Shares StoneCo Ltd. Announces Launch of Proposed Follow-on Offering of Class A Common Shares Qutoutiao Inc. Announces Proposed Follow-on Public Offering of American Depositary Shares RenaissanceRe Holdings Ltd. Announces Pricing of $400 Million Senior        Note Offering United Kingdom : Ensco plc Receives Clearance from the General Authority for Competition in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Pending Combination with Rowan Companies plc 19th Annual NHRA Dodge HEMI® Challenge Set to Return to Iconic U.S. Nationals Citi Introduces New Citi Wealth Advisor Digital Financial        Planner The World's Largest Oil Company And Petrochemical Company Merge Citi Launches Digital Money Index 2019 Ensco plc Receives Clearance from the General Authority for        Competition in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for Pending Combination with        Rowan Companies plc Citi Releases Bank X, Report Maps Future of Banks CECP Announces Nielsen CEO David Kenny, NRG CEO Mauricio Gutierrez, and Siemens USA CEO Barbara Humpton  to Join Board of Directors New Survey: Middle-Income Americans Concerned About Their Financial Future C-Tracks ETNs linked to the Miller/Howard MLP Fundamental Index        (MLPC) To Pay Quarterly Coupon Citi to Build Digital Consumer Payments Business for Institutions Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.