Your Internet Service Provider (ISP) is the company you pay a fee to for access to the internet. No matter the kind of internet access (cable, DSL, dial-up), an ISP provides you or your business a piece of a larger pipe to the internet. All internet connected devices run each request through their ISP in order to access servers to download web pages and files, and those servers themselves can only provide you those files through their own ISP. Examples of some ISPs include AT&T, Comcast, Verizon, Cox, NetZero, among many, many others. They may be wired directly to a home or business or beamed wirelessly via satellite or other technology. We all have some sort of device in our home or business that connects us to the internet. It's through that device that your phone, laptop, desktop computer, and other internet capable devices reach the rest of the world — and it's all done through various ISPs. Let's look at an example of where the Internet Service Provider falls in the chain of events that lets you download files and open web pages from the internet. The same concept applies to sending and downloading other files like videos, images, documents, etc. — anything that you download online is only able to be transferred through an ISP. It's rather pointless to go through all the troubleshooting steps to repair your own network if your ISP is the one that has the problem... but how do you know if it's your network or the Internet Service Provider that is to blame? The easiest thing to do if you can't open a website is to try a different one. If other websites work just fine then it's obviously neither your computer nor your ISP that's having issues — it's either the web server that's dishing out the website or the ISP that the website is using to deliver the website. There's nothing you can do but wait for them to resolve it. If the ISP for your home network is down for whatever reason, you could always disconnect the Wifi on your phone to start using your cell phone carrier's data plan. This just switches your phone from using one ISP to using another, which is one way to get internet access if your home ISP is down. Some specific types of ISPs include hosting ISPs, like ones that just host email or online storage and free or nonprofit ISPs (sometimes called free-nets), which provide internet access for free but usually with advertisements. There was an error. Please try again.