The Idaho State Police is a dynamic force in the mix of entities that provide public safety services to Idaho's citizens and visitors.  While you may be familiar with the sight of the "black and whites" patrolling the interstate, there is much more to ISP's ability to protect your property and person. ISP's Investigations program conducts major criminal investigations with an emphasis on drug, racketeering, and computer crimes.  Many cases are prosecuted in both state and federal courts, reaching throughout the United States and across international borders into Mexico and Canada. Forensic Services provides direct support to Idaho's criminal justice community through crime scene evidence collection and analysis.  Laboratories located in Coeur d'Alene, Meridian and Pocatello analyze evidence for every law enforcement agency in the state - in fact, annually, up to 85% of the labs' caseloads are generated by local or federal agency investigations. Partnerships remain ISP's greatest tool for savings, efficiency, effectiveness, and delivery of excellent law enforcement services. ISP is not only a law enforcement agency, but an entity of state government.  Therefore, a most important partnership is with the Governor's Office and the Idaho legislature. As an executive agency, ISP carries out those gubernatorial priorities that are within its scope in law, such as emphasizing homeland security or public school safety. Our mission is to keep you safe:  at home, on the road, wherever you are.  You can partner with us to achieve this goal by staying alert to your surroundings, driving responsibly, and always buckle up for safety! To learn more about the Idaho State Police, follow the various links at this site and contact us with your questions and comments. Fairly and aggressively enforces the law Enhances public safety Embodies proactive policing principles Is effective and efficient Is a good steward of public funds and resources Honesty, integrity and ethics Professionalism Teamwork and partnerships Respect for each other Courage of our employees  Download this form to submit evidence to the ISP Cyber Crime Unit.  This type of evidence is analyzed for electronic data such as cell phones, computers, laptops, hard drives, flash media, digital cameras, etc. Name Based Background Check Form Fingerprint Based Background Check Form Retired Law Enforcement CWP Form AFIS Latent Submittal Form AMBER Alert Instruction Portal Activation Form LEA Review Form IBR Manual Submission Form Law Officers Assaulted and Killed Reporting Form Affidavit Release of License Selecting a file below will open the file in a new tab/window. It may be saved from there as needed.