 Facebook YouTube Twitter GovDelivery Events Thank you for visiting the Indiana State Police Firearms Licensing page. The Indiana State Police offers several services to those needing to obtain or update an Indiana Handgun License. Please see the information below regarding your application for a handgun license. *** IMPORTANT NOTICES *** Beginning July 1, 2017 the following policy will be in effect: A Current Police Officer or Retired Police Officer as defined by Indiana Code 35-47-2-4, that has a minimum of 20 years of service or that has been medically retired by a recognized pension board, will be eligible for an Indiana Handgun License, fee exempt. Police Officer is defined by state statute as (1) Police Officers (2) Sheriffs or their Deputies (3) Law Enforcement Officers (4) Correctional Officers. (Military Police does not apply) The Indiana State Police Firearms Licensing Unit does not accept fingerprint cards directly at our offices. If a fingerprint card is received by mail, it will be returned to the applicant. Applicants must schedule a fingerprint appointment with IDEMIA online. Click one of the links below to either obtain or renew an Indiana Handgun License. Canadian applicants must contact IDEMIA at +1 (877) 472-6917 for instruction on how to register for an out-of-state records check. Effective January 1, 2017, The Indiana State Police Firearms Licensing Unit will no longer accept payment for firearms license applications, duplicate license requests or manual inked fingerprint cards by mail. If a payment or fingerprint card is received by mail, it will be returned to the applicant. Application payments must be made electronically through the Firearms License Application Portal. Please contact your Local Law Enforcement Agency for special circumstances. The Indiana State Police Department is no longer accepting manual name change forms, manual address change forms or manual duplicate license request forms. All changes must be completed online through the Indiana State Police Handgun Licensing Portal. Click the appropriate link below to begin your online process. Do you have a question that is not answered on one of the pages above? Get more information ... Sign up here for the latest news and updates from Indiana State Police. Contrast Setting Text Setting Text Only Version of IN.gov Website Google Translate YouTube Facebook Twitter Instagram GovDelivery