Micro enables teams to scale microservices development while abstracting away the complexity of distributed systems and cloud-native infrastructure.  It provides a pluggable and runtime agnostic architecture with sane zero dependency defaults. Micro has largely grown organically. We’ve not yet actively engaged in speaking at conferences, meetups or any other form of outreach. Instead  we focused on solving a real problem and it’s shown in the numbers. The announcement of version 1.0.0 is not just a marker for maturity and stability to run Micro in production but it also signals that this release version  will not suffer any further breaking API changes. This now also allows us to take stock of all the learnings of Micro’s usage of the past 4  years, how technology has evolved in the industry and what version 2 might start to look like. When we started, kubernetes was just in it’s infancy and gRPC had only recently been released. We’re seeing these trends along with service mesh  and much more. Because Micro is pluggable we’ve always been able to adapt to the changing needs of developers while continuing to provide  simpler abstractions on top for microservice development. With version 2.0 we have the ability to create an even more frictionless and streamlined experience. Some of these ideas will revolve around using gRPC by default, allowing a drop-in experience on kubernetes and potentially a runtime  for those who don’t want to deal with the complexity of cloud-native systems or any dependency management at all. We’ll also be thinking about how to move beyond Go to support multiple languages. Slack has served us well for realtime collaboration but we need a medium aligned with open source to push this much further, to be far more inclusive  and to provide a historic record for newcomers to explore easily. To all those interested in contributing and collaboration, create an issue for feature requests, a pull request to share design ideas and we’ll work  together to shape the roadmap. I want to finish by saying thank you to the Micro community and all who’ve used or supported us over the past 4 years. It’s been a long hard  but incredibly rewarding journey with so much more left to do. Without the community Micro would not be where it is today. We’re 1.6k+ members  strong in Slack with thousands more across other forums. The founder of Micro. Former Cloud Architect at Hailo and SRE at Google.