Android 9.0 is already on some Android phones. Here's what you can expect when it comes to yours. Windows 10 delivers a refined, vastly improved vision for the future of computing with an operating system that's equally at home on tablets and traditional PCs -- and it's a free upgrade for most users. With lots of new features, the LG Watch Sport and Style are the first to use the new software -- and it's promising. If you're a dedicated Windows 8 hater, the update to Windows 8.1 isn't going to change your mind. For everyone else, this collection of tweaks, fixes, and new features is useful, but everything here should have shipped in the original version last year. With the latest version of iOS and an NFC-equipped iPhone, you'll finally be able to pay for transactions with Apple Pay. The new Ubuntu Touch operating system for phones and tablets blows away rivals Firefox OS and Tizen -- and it may even be better than iOS and Android. If you own a Mac, you'll want El Capitan. This update simplifies the Mac experience, improving the tools you already use while promising improved performance to come. From new Continuity features to smaller, useful tweaks across core apps, Mac OS X Yosemite is a must download for Mac users. With new functionality for the Start button and separate experiences for desktop and tablet users, the Windows 8.1 update finally gives people what they want. Android 6.0 Marshmallow is out now. This is everything you need to know about Google's mobile operating system update. Google gives us a preview of the future of its mobile operating system. Google is taking yet another shot at a living room software platform with Android TV, which runs on the upcoming Android L platform. As it's a free upgrade that gives you more apps, improved features across the board, and better performance, there is really no reason not to get Mavericks on your Mac. Nokia sure tried hard to give us something new, but its mashup of Android, Windows Phone, and Asha gives its Nokia X phone limited powers and a nagging identity crisis. Millennium is a great face-lift for Windows 98, but it's not a necessary upgrade. If you have technical difficulties or work with pictures or music, try the new OS. But if you're happy with Windows 98, stick with it. Microsoft makes an aggressive, forward-thinking, and bold statement for the future of PCs with Windows 8, and vast security and speed improvements more than justify the $40 upgrade price. Take a good, hard look at Mac OS X 10.2 if you're adding a Mac to a Windows network--Jaguar's new tools can't be beat. But home users, beware the $129 upgrade price if you're not looking for networking options. Unless you're really into Photos or have installed the iOS 11 beta, there's no FOMO by passing on the public beta of Apple's latest OS.