Newegg.com - A great place to buy computers, computer parts, electronics, software, accessories, and DVDs online. With great prices, fast shipping, and top-rated customer service - Newegg shopping upgraded ™ Newegg.com - Computer Parts, Laptops, Electronics, HDTVs, Digital Cameras and More! Free 3-Day-or-sooner expedited shipping on qualifying items. Add up to four friends to your account so they can enjoy your great Newegg Premier benefits. Free shipping on returns and waived restocking fee for qualifying items. Need quick assistance? Use our private customer service line to help answer any questions or concerns. Do you want to visit Newegg website in your country? Shop Exclusive Deals on our Mobile App! Our latest email deals. Deal Today, Gone Tomorrow Every week, the Newegg deals team hand-picks intriguing products for you. Open box, clearance, refurbished and recertified PCs, electronics and more. The right operating system (OS) can make the difference between a functional computer and one in need of an upgrade. Software affects all of a device's processes and can improve its functionality. Every user should work with an OS that they are comfortable with and can navigate easily. Windows 7 has been a popular Windows OS due to its intuitive design, which is much more user-friendly than that of previous generations. On-screen navigation has been simplified with a larger, customizable taskbar, so popular applications can be opened with only a single click. While there are many versions of Windows OS's, the Ultimate version offers increased security and data backup. The OS comes with BitLocker, a hard drive encryption program. Windows 7 Professional offers advanced storage, as well, which prevents unsaved documents from being lost during hardware malfunctions. Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated. Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated. Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated. Some manufacturers place restrictions on how details of their products may be communicated.