The operating system of a large computer system has even more work to do.  Such operating systems monitor different programs and users, making sure everything runs smoothly, without interference, despite the fact that numerous devices and programs are used simultaneously.  An operating system also has a vital role to play in security.  Its job includes preventing unauthorized users from accessing the computer system. Real-time operating systems are designed to allow computers to process and respond to input instantly.  Usually, general-purpose operating systems, such as disk operating system (DOS), are not considered real time, as they may require seconds or minutes to respond to input.  Real-time operating systems are typically used when computers must react to the consistent input of information without delay.  For example, real-time operating systems may be used in navigation. What business processes changed because of the operating system? I am a really good OS collector. What I have: Windows 1.01-3.1; chicago 58 and 189; windows 95, me, windows 8 beta, 7, xp, etc. How is the operating system created? What is the purpose of the operating system? What is equitable processor sharing and how do I implement that? what is memory management? How can an operating system control a network? Can I ask what are the types of operating systems? I wish to know how to update my computer's operating system. I brought a printer and it is asking for a operating system update in order to install. Help. What are the features of operating systems? you have given my nice data regarding o.s. can you give me a data about unix? what is the characteristic of an operating system? it is possible to buy OS on a disc? well normally it is on disc lol but I'm not sure if there is any other way of obtaining a OS. operation system is the device that controls all the applications and software. great! it is a good site for students. thanks for the help. thanks for your help. what are the characteristics of an OS?  Why do operating systems come in versions? What are the advantages and disadvantages of operating system kernels? nice information. Please, is data based on an OS? branches of OS? is there such a thing? can someone please discuss? thank you so much Is dBASE an operating system? thank you. Operating systems play very important roles in computer technology and this is the key of any technology. thanks for giving this information. nice information. thank you, it's very good. thanks for the help. An overview of OS-- good. thank you for your help. what are the different characteristics of an operating system? what is the role of an operating system in system software?  what is chipset? same problem is with me. processing is slow with hp vista. i also want to degrade my system to xp, but i heard don't degrade with recommended vista. Please help me to improve the speed of the system. Good job! what is another name for an operating system? i am an ict student who is finding some difficulties in understanding the role and functions of operating system. can you make it simple for me to understand? Thank you for a brief explanation about the operation system. Cheers!  thanks for the help. What are five current os and the computers or configuration each operates? it helped me a lot! Thanks. anon7461: the latest operating system is windows 7. it's really good. the ultimate is only like 11,000 rupees. Comment 2: Changing From Vista to XP. it all depends really if you want to keep Vista? I have lost my audio input and output and don't know where to find them on my computer. my microphone and speakers no longer work.  there is a lot to explore. the links in the site are very useful. What are some examples of an operating system. this website is the best website for help on computers. its  functions? I have a brand new hp computer I bought at Best Buy and I am a work at home agent. The problem is most of the customer service inbound or outbound calling systems aren't compatible with windows vista yet. Is there any way I can change the operating system of my computer to a more easier system to work with? Such as is there a disc I can buy to run to install windows xp and run it sometimes when I need it? Or is none of this possible? the latest operating system today???? operation system is the device that controls all the applications and software. How can i change my operating system from vista to window xp professional? Thanks for your help! One of our editors will review your suggestion and make changes if warranted.       Note that depending on the number of suggestions we receive,       this can take anywhere from a few hours to a few days.       Thank you for helping to improve wiseGEEK!