Linux isn’t the only alternative PC operating system out there. Some alternative operating systems are developed by large corporations, while others are small projects worked on by hobbyists. Google’s Chrome OS is built on the Linux kernel, but it replaces the desktop and user-level software with a specialized desktop that can only run the Chrome browser and Chrome apps. Apple’s Mac OS X is preinstalled on Macs, but Macs are now just another type of PC with the same standard hardware inside. The only thing stopping you from installing Mac OS X on a typical PC is Apple’s license agreement and the way they limit their software.Mac OS X can run just fine on typical PCs if you can get around these restrictions. BeOS was a lightweight PC operating system ported to the Intel x86 platform in 1998, but it wasn’t able to stand up to Microsoft’s Windows. Be Inc. eventually sued Microsoft, accusing them of pressuring Hitachi and Compaq to not release BeOS hardware. Microsoft settled out of court, paying $23.5 million to Be Inc. without admitting any guilt. Be Inc. was eventually acquired by Palm Inc. Haiku is an open-source reimplementation of BeOS that’s currently in alpha. It’s a snapshot of what might have been if Microsoft hadn’t used such ruthless business practices in the 90’s. OS/2 was an operating system originally created by Microsoft and IBM. IBM continued development after Microsoft left it and OS/2 competed with MS-DOS and the original versions of Windows. Microsoft eventually won, but there are still old ATMs, PCs, and other systems using OS/2. IBM once marketed this operating system as OS/2 Warp, so you may know it by that name. IBM no longer develops OS/2, but a company named Serenity Systems has the rights to continue distributing it. They call their operating system eComStation. It’s based on IBM’s OS/2 and adds additional applications, drivers, and other enhancements. This is the only paid operating system on this list aside from Mac OS X. You can still download a free demo CD to check it out. This operating system is considered alpha. Its current goal is to become compatible with Windows Server 2003, so it has a long way to go. Syllable is an open-source operating system forked from AtheOS, which was originally intended to be an AmigaOS clone. It’s a lightweight operating system “in the tradition of the Amiga and BeOS, but built using many parts from the GNU project and Linux.” Like some of the other smaller operating systems here, it has only a handful of developers. Unlike many of the other hobbyist operating systems here, SkyOS is proprietary and not open-source. You originally had to pay for access so you could use development versions of SkyOS on your own PC. Development on SkyOS ended in 2009, but the last beta version was made available as a free download in 2013. GET HELP ON OUR FORUM Facebook Twitter LinkedIn The Best Tech Newsletter Anywhere The Best Tech Newsletter Anywhere