Canonical is the leading provider of managed OpenStack. We also provide enterprise support, training, consulting, and will help you design and deliver your new private cloud. Canonical supports Kubeadm, MicroK8s and Charmed Kubernetes on VMware, OpenStack, bare metal, AWS, Azure, Google, Oracle Cloud, IBM Cloud and Rackspace. Embedded Ubuntu on your device gives you the best developer experience, security and long-term support. Choose between Classic Ubuntu Server or the new Ubuntu Core for appliances. Canonical provides 24/7 enterprise support, security, and break-fix engineering for Ubuntu, OpenStack, Docker and Kubernetes. Enterprise Linux done right. The best Linux platform for modern cloud and IoT development. Develop with Ubuntu Deliver your app to millions of Ubuntu users, servers and devices. Publish with Snapcraft Automate everything from development to production. Use headless Ubuntu Server, or Ubuntu Core for embedded appliance security. Accelerate to market Ubuntu delivers hardware acceleration on Nvidia for all clouds and bare metal. Develop for AI/ML A standard way to deploy and operate cloud software like Hadoop, Spark, OpenStack and Kubernetes. Discover Charm Packages Tutorials cover a wide range of topics. Learn or teach something new to Ubuntu users. Discourse is a meeting point for people who shape the direction of Ubuntu. We recommend you start there. The mission of Ubuntu is to bring the benefits of free software to the widest possible audience. Download Ubuntu desktop and replace your current operating system whether it’s Windows or Mac OS, or, run Ubuntu alongside it. The most popular server Linux in the cloud and data centre, you can rely on Ubuntu Server and its five years of guaranteed free upgrades. Are you a developer who wants to try snappy Ubuntu Core or classic Ubuntu on an IoT board? Use Ubuntu optimised and certified server images on most major clouds. Find new ways to experience Ubuntu, each with their own choice of default applications and settings. Erfahren Sie mehr über künstliche Intelligenz und Machine Learning und wie Ubuntu zur bevorzugten Plattform für AI und ML Projekte wird. Erfahren Sie mehr über Ubuntu, eine führende Technologie für regulatorische Anforderungen in verschiedensten Branchen. Webinar ansehen Hier klicken um teilzunehmen Gardez vos systèmes en sécurité après la fin de support officiel en avril 2019. Apprenez comment migrer d'un environnement traditionnel et propriétaire à un cloud OpenStack Automate your development pipeline with a CI/CD workflow. Learn how to maintain ongoing security compliance for your Ubuntu 14.04 LTS systems. Download the whitepaper Download the whitepaper now The latest version of the world’s most widely used Linux platform for Kubernetes, multi-cloud and machine learning. Download Ubuntu 18.10 now 28 March 2019 28 March 2019 25 March 2019 6 March 2019 Find out more about Ubuntu’s cloud building software, tools and service packages. Learn about how Ubuntu Core and snaps can help you build your connected devices. From LXD to Kubernetes to Docker, Ubuntu can run your containers at scale. Download the latest version of Ubuntu, for desktop PCs and laptops. A series of on-demand webinars to learn more about Charmed’s Distribution of Kubernetes. Keep control of costs with our four-step approach to OpenStack upgrades. Canonical certifies, secures and enables enterprise open source on Ubuntu. Tell us about your project so we bring the right team to the conversation. A member of our team will be in touch within one working day. Back to top © 2019 Canonical Ltd. Ubuntu and Canonical are registered trademarks of Canonical Ltd.