The "Operating system" provides utilities to optimize your system, monitor its operation and manage your files. Lucky Patcher is a free Android app that patches applications and games,... SuperCopier allows you to optimize transfers for copying and moving files.... The Windows XP SP3 is a major update for Windows XP that has more than 1,000... Comfort On-Screen Keyboard Pro is a full virtual keyboard on your screen... WinRAR is well-known among computer users, and it is now available as a... Virus attacks can really damage your operating system, installed... Microsoft NET Framework 2.0 installs the .NET Framework runtime and... RAR Password Unlocker is a practical utility that allows you to recover your... WinRAR is there to help you to send and store large files. To do this, the... Roxio Easy Media Creator is a disc burner software designed by Roxio... This software is no longer supported by Microsoft. Microsoft Fix it is a... Nero 6 is an old version of Nero burning suite. This version contains the... WhatsUp Gold, also called WUG is a network management and monitoring... WinRAR is a software that allows users to send large files by compressing... HDD Regenerator is a software which provides a dual function. It can repair... Hiren&aposs BootCD includes lots of elements designed to solve issues... Windows Installer is Windows&apos resident software that is responsible for... Once data stored in our Sim Cards are deleted, there is almost no way to... When you buy Windows 7 from Microsoft&aposs website, you can download an... Display Brightness is a simple tool that aims to help you modify the... HP USB Disk Storage Format Tool is a Windows-based formatting utility for... Microsoft Windows Installer 3.1 is an installation service and application... CmosPwd is a software that is designed to recover or reset your password to... Speed up PC 3X Faster is a software whose purpose is to speed up your... XXClone is a software for cloning computer&aposs disks and partitions. It... Blackmagic Disk Speed Test is a tool for checking the performance of a hard... BlueSoleil is an adapter to connect Bluetooth devices to your computer. It... Software Updater Pro is a tool that searches for new versions of various... USB Repair is a software that enables you to recover data from a USB key or... Samsung Kies is a software that lets you transfer files and synchronize data...