 Although you may or may not yet be aware of how a 2 word phrase such as Quantum Physics can enhance EVERY aspect of your life, it CAN and in fact WILL...should you allow it to. If you will "allow it" and read along for just a bit, you'll SEE just how profoundly and transformationally true that is. They certainly don't have it anywhere close to fully "figured out." But what they have figured out and know, is where ALL physical things, whether events, conditions, and circumstances as well as everything in the entire Universe stem from. Put simply, quantum physics breaks physical things down into their purest and most basic form,  attempting to discover the Ultimate Source from where they (which includes everything) are derived. An on the surface look, from a strictly intellectual vantage point, with regard to what Quantum Physics is and what quantum physicists do, may and perhaps does, sound a bit ho hum or perhaps even, really complex. But when you become aware of and combine the underlying conclusions that Quantum Physics reveals, with what the mystics, sages, masters and philosophers since antiquity have to say about life and how our lives come to be the kind and quality that they are, (whatever that entails) is not only PROFOUNDLY exciting, it CAN prove to be the catalyst that transforms your entire life. EVERY aspect of your life too!! In SO MANY ways actually.  Unless you have been exposed to the science of physics at some point, just the mention of Quantum Physics may seem a bit overwhelming. But it's really not as intimidating or hard to understand as you may think. In fact, as you'll soon discover, it's your thoughts and beliefs concerning Quantum Physics that makes it easy or difficult to understand. If that statement seems a little puzzling at this point, rest assured, it won't be once you've finished reading this article and develop a deeper understanding of how it is that Quantum Physics (more specifically, Quantum Mechanics) determines the outcomes in your life, everything in the world around you, as well as things you can't even see yet. What's better, when you understand what Quantum science has discovered, you CAN without question, become far more adept and on purpose in determining the kind and quality of your future...FOR SURE.  As Quantum Physics has revealed, you play a MUCH BIGGER and far more important role in determining what your day to day life becomes than you might think, let alone understand, which is WHY I've chosen to share what I've personally discovered regarding how real, true and factual that is.  Regardless of your current religious preference (or lack of) or level of scientific knowledge, these basics concerning Quantum Physics will enable you to construct a solid and unshakable foundation of "awareness", for beginning to build and experience your life consciously and purposefully in a way that you desire. For me personally, familiarizing myself with Quantum Physics played a MAJOR role in enabling me to better understand how and why various "growth lessons" that I had experienced earlier in life really happened, which resulted in developing a much deeper and stronger "Belief" or "Faith" in my own personal ability to begin consciously creating the events, conditions and circumstances that I desired. I can assure you from what can be best described as a deep "Inner Knowing", after experiencing what can only be described as a series of "Very Profound Experiences" of a very up close and personal nature, that science, spirituality as well as EVERYTHING else in life, is intricately tied together. Developing an understanding of all of them will arm you with an unshakable faith, capable of manifesting dramatic and in many cases seemingly miraculous life changes.  In fact I can say without any apprehension whatsoever, that Quantum Physics has proven to be the "icing on the cake" and one of the greatest and most important discoveries that I have EVER made in relation to enhancing my overall awareness in a tangible kind of way. Perhaps the greatest benefit is that Quantum physics both solidified and enhanced my beliefs in DRAMATIC ways concerning what the most enlightened spiritual teachers have taught for thousands of years. The combination of my "profound experiences", which led to a strictly spiritually focused quest and eventually led to exploring quantum physics, proved to deepen my understanding exponentially, as well as greatly enhance all that I had gained looking for meaningful answers during that predominantly focused spiritual quest.  So in the simplest and most down to earth way that I can, with the hope that a basic understanding of Quantum Physics will assist you in the same way, I'll share what the science of Quantum Physics has discovered with you, in a way that is easy to grasp, understand and digest.   At the conclusion of this article you will have developed a much deeper understanding as to how discoveries made through Quantum Physics can and do play an ENORMOUS role in shaping each and every event, condition and circumstance that YOU experience in YOUR personal life, and what you can begin to do immediately to  consciously and purposefully use what you discover to enhance your own quality of life. First, let's take a look at what quantum physics is...   The "label" doesn't matter really, they're one and the same. Bottom line Quantum Physics is a detailed study of what is known as Quantum Mechanics which determines how EVERYTHING in the cosmos has come to exist, beginning at the atomic and sub-atomic levels. More simply put, it is an in depth study of the building blocks of the ENTIRE Universe, the SEEN and the UNSEEN. Basically what Quantum Physics consists of, is analyzing things that are experienced in life in various forms (as well as non-form) and tracing them back to where they originated and/or  were derived from which, as you will soon discover, consists of pure energy or "light." EVERY probability whether past, present or future begins and exists as a wave form. They're still trying to figure out where these "wave forms" come from and what enables them to exist at all, but they do KNOW that they exist. How so?  As most everyone discovered in elementary school, middle school and/or high school, everything that you can see in the physical world is made up of atoms and molecules. Let's not get too deep. In fact let's stop there to keep it as simple and easy to understand as possible.   For the sake of not turning this into a Quantum Physics lecture, let's get into the REALLY GOOD stuff that reveals how "real, true, practical and SIMPLE that is.....    A huge and amazing discovery which took place in 1925 and has become well known today as E=MC2, was discovered by a scientist named Albert Einstein. This new world changing discovery would dramatically change the views of the scientific community and what was previously believed to be true in relation to what truly makes up our world. To that point, mankind believed and adhered to a very limited view of how all things came to be. This previous understanding was called Newtonian Physics. Based on Newtonian physics it was believed that all things just happened as a result of gravity.  Newtonian Physics basically, was Issac Newton's theory based on the late 17th century belief that the Universe was made up of what was believed at the time to be solid objects, (atoms) which were attracted towards each other by gravity. This theory was extended in the 19th century to include the  structures of atoms (also known as matter) as being the fundamental building blocks of nature. According to this limited Newtonian Physics view, it was believed that atoms were of a solid nature. In other words they believed that  electrons, protons, etc. that each atom consisted of, was a solid mass or solid physical object.  What Einstein's world changing discover would prove was that these atoms, could be broken down, examined and analyzed further. What they discovered is that the subatomic particles which collectively formed the atoms were pure energy. (light) At that time though, Einstein honestly believed that this energy he had discovered existed in the form of particles, aka matter. In other words they had an "appearance" of being solid. Although he was "partially" correct, his theory differed from another noted physicist of that day, named Thomas Young. Young believed that energy existed as a wave form and was NOT particles at all. Ok, so at this point we have one noted physicist saying energy is waves and another saying that energy is particles. We'll get to that answer in just a minute, but based on the findings thus far, at that point in time, it was at least agreed upon, that ALL things were comprised of and existed because of energy. What does all that have to do with you and your life?   Everything that exists in the entire cosmos, which is  experienced with the five physical senses or otherwise, from the infinitely large to the infinitely small, from the macroscopic to the microscopic, went far beyond just the theory of trillions of solid atoms being attracted together by way of gravity as Newtonian Physics pointed out. Einstein's discovery took the whole "partially true" Newtonian Physics theory a step further and determined that these atoms and everything that they joined together to form, including the  sub-atomic particles which made atoms, atoms, at their core, are comprised of nothing more or less than energy.   Looked at in another way, you could say that we exist in what could be considered to be an "infinite" field of quantum energy soup, just as an individual drop of water exists independently yet at the same time "collectively" within the ocean. You could also say the drop of water is an integral part of the One body of water we call the ocean. Now that may not mean much to you at this point but stay with me because it get's REALLY exciting and you'll see in a very clear and PROFOUND way how it DOES pertain to not only you, me and EVERYONE else, but EVERY THING, including EACH and EVERY aspect of your life...bar nothing. As a side note... It's interesting that with the amazing and potentially life changing discoveries made as a result of Quantum Physics over the last century, that in many of the public school systems of today, the long outdated theory of Newtonian Physics is still being taught. Hmmmm...kinda makes you wonder why, doesn't it?  Without a basic understanding of Quantum Physics you might think that there are different forms of energy. In a strictly physical kind of way, that's true...to a degree. In a tangible, Newtonian world kind of way, there are varying forms of energy. There's the kind of energy that powers your home, energy that makes you get out of bed in the morning and keeps you going throughout the day, energy that fuels your car, etc. Although they appear in a physical sense to be varying types of energy at the tangible level, due to the varying structures and vibrational frequencies of the subatomic particles (and the varying formations of these same sub-atomic particles which comprise them), when analyzed by Quantum Physicists and broken down into their purest form they too, at their core are all made up of this "One Energy." So what does all that mean and how does it apply to you, life and what you desire in life? ONE and the same energy. Now before I reveal and get to the granddaddy discovery of ALL the potential benefits, let's get back to the disagreement between Einstein and Young regarding energy being waves or particles. This since resolved disagreement (which we'll get to the profound and empowering details of soon) is known today as wave/particle duality. This is where Quantum Physics gets REALLY exciting, potentially transformational and what some might "perceive" to be either REALLY REALLY AWESOME, or REALLY REALLY weird!! If it seems weird to you, it's ONLY because the "perception of weirdness" stems from what we've been taught in traditional education venues. I'll assure you, that form of education only provides, at best, a very limited world view of a much greater and far more PROFOUND picture of how life unfolds. And because it is so limited nature, it's also WHY so many "believe" that the events, conditions and circumstances that we each experience in life happen in a less than profound kind of way!! Quantum Physics is FAR different and far more expansive than ANYTHING learned in traditionalschool to this point...no doubt. We're getting there I PROMISE. Ok, back to wave/particle duality. To solve this wave/particle dilemma regarding energy, along comes another extremely brilliant scientist, Niels Bohr. Bohr  who was the Nobel Prize winner in 1922, who, through his work and study of subatomic structure, added a whole new twist to Einsteins theory regarding energy existing as particles. In fact Einstein and Bohr debated over this difference of opinion quite often for many years. What an empowering debate it turned out to be!!! Based on work Bohr had done, he believed that matter (particles) could be separately analyzed as having several contradictory properties. In other words, that's scientific mumbo jumbo that says energy COULD BE both waves AND particles.  To put it another way, ANYTHING and EVERYTHING which exists in the entire cosmos, when broken down and analyzed into it's purest and most basic form, utilizing sophisticated scientific tools and instruments,  is merely a vibrating frequency of energy which joins together with energies of the same harmonious frequency to form what we "perceive" to be reality. As a result, that, and that alone, determines what we experience as individuals in the physical world.  With that being the case why haven't you become aware of it until now? If Quantum Physics has existed and these facts known for that long of a period, why wouldn't you already know about it? Well...Unless you have taken an advanced college course in quantum physics you couldn't know about it. Why? Simply because you have been inundated with many "partial truths" and in many cases, programmed, conditioned and limited by totally false beliefs and understandings of how things "truly work" since you were a child. In fact as mentioned above, most public education systems  today in many parts of the world still teach the long since outdated Newtonian Physics theory in their schools. What is that "truth?" There are 3 obvious truths that come to my mind. We "Really and Truly Are, ONE!!" Take ALL the religious connotations out of it. This is about "spirituality and quantum physics", NOT man made structured religion, which, in MANY cases, waters down and attempts to debunk the enormity and infinite nature of spirituality and quantum physics.  Now if that has you feeling a little doubtful and uncomfortable at this point I fully understand. But stay with me for a few more paragraphs and it will all begin to make perfect sense. These aren't MY findings or discoveries. It's not something that I've concocted out of thin air. This is PROVEN and well documented science discovered by Nobel Prize laureates and the truth concerning it has been around and taught in spiritual circles for countless thousands of years. The scientific validation made possible through Quantum Physics...the ability for scientists to observe and validate these ancient spiritual teachings in a physical sense, has been around for well OVER 90 years. Yet the sages, mystics and masters of the past have spoken of what quantum physicists have recently discovered regarding quantum mechanics and taught it for eons, way before the technology existed to prove it in a "tangible" and physical kind of way. Hmmmm....pretty profound stuff don't you think? Believe it or not, it GETS even BETTER than that!! It requires developing them in MOST cases, no doubt. But as quantum physicists have discovered and the Masters of the past KNEW, the ability (YOUR ability) to DO that is there...period. I haven't always KNOWN that...for sure. In fact, at one point, I "thought" that such things were "nonsense", as MANY still do today. Yet it's for the obvious reasons, which goes back to what we've "learned" to be true, which determines what we are "aware of" and believe. I still recall being approached with this "We Are One" concept many years ago as a young teen. Upon hearing it at the time, due to a lack of awareness and deeper understanding, stemming from  the  limited forms of traditional teachings that I had received, and a complete unawareness of Quantum Physics and Quantum Mechanics altogether, I wholeheartedly believed that the person doing the sharing at the time must have had one to many encounters with some really potent hallucinogenic substance. What I was personally "aware of" and believed prior to these "profound experiences" I mentioned earlier (which led to me venturing out beyond religion and traditional forms of education) and doing the exploratory work for myself, is that all these things I've shared were airy fairy woo woo nonsense. Many years and a number of "profound experiences" later, today I KNOW that the limited perceptions I held, were both unfounded and short sighted. As I have long since discovered, that conclusion was made and based only on a lack of awareness on my part as to how things TRULY work. That lack of awareness happened as a result of NOT being taught anything concerning quantum physics, or the far reaching possibilities which spirituality revealed, in either religion or the public schools that I attended. That combined with not taking the initiative to discover it for myself for many years, led to my obvious oblivion and ignorance. The reasons WHY are simple... What I've since discovered, as a result of many years of extensive independent research, years of in depth study of both science, various religions and their texts, and much trial and error through personal experience, is that whoever it was that initially shared this "We are One" thing with me was absolutely 100% correct!! My hope is that by sharing what I discovered during this exploratory time with you, through both Quantum Physics and my exploration of the spiritual aspects of life which I've discovered, that you will develop a deeper awareness based on my research and experiences and as a result not have to go through many of the "growth lessons" that I and so many others have experienced unnecessarily. These conclusions are... OK...I got a bit sidetracked. I do that when I get excited, so please forgive me.     When Einstein first discovered this truth concerning energy, he came to the conclusion that even though all things were made of  energy, everything which happened or formed as a result of this energy, did so randomly without any individual interference or participation. In other words he concluded that the events, conditions and circumstances which happened in the universe, happened as a result of some unchangeable and immutable external force. He believed that things just "were the way they were" and that no one other than God, or whatever you perceive The Source to be, could mold, shape or change them. Here's where the discoveries made through Quantum Physics get REALLY exciting and if you'll keep an open mind, you'll clearly understand that there does exist a form of power...unlimited and untainted power that you may not be aware of, which once understood and "consciously utilized", can quite literally transform your entire life!! Here's why... As further scientific research and studies continued, differences of opinion arose among the quantum physicists of that day. One of these differences came from a man we've already mentioned, named Neils Bohr. Bohr believed that although Einsteins discover was "partially" correct, there was more to what Einstein had discovered which hadn't yet been revealed. Bohr felt that this energy wasn't necessarily particles at all but rather had the potential to take various forms. Prior to this soon to be discovery by Bohr and some other Quantum physicists, it was believed, based on Einsteins discovery that energy existed as particles which when observed "appeared to be" a solid mass although it was only due to the high rate of vibration that subatomic particles create, giving them the "appearance" of solidity. In other words they weren't considered as "particles" like a grain of sand. With Einstein believing that energy was particles, Young's belief that energy was waves and now Bohr's belief that energy could exist as a wave but also as particles, the scientific world remained divided. Yes, and that's what REALLY cool and even kind of freaky and hair raising about Quantum Physics...weird even!! Here's what turned the scientific community upside down, right side up and led to what quantum physicists understand about energy and quantum physics today Although Young was CERTAIN that energy was waves and Einstein was CERTAIN that this energy was particles, The Copenhagen Interpretation revealed that these subatomic particles weren't ONLY particles at all but rather existed as and consisted of wave forms and/or particles, but couldn't be both at the same time. Neils Bohr NAILED it!! In fact what the Copenhagen Interpretation revealed is that energy is waves and when ATTENTION is placed on it, all other probabilities collapse (wave forms) and a "particle" (matter) is formed. To give it more tangible and measurable value as it pertains to YOU... The thoughts and perceptions of the scientist doing the observing determined which one it was...waves or particles.  The profound, empowering and hair raising conclusion is that energy is both WAVES and PARTICLES, but cannot be both at the same time. Are You GETTING THIS????? I mean REALLY getting it? If so, you'll begin "getting" how it can and does impact EVERY aspect of your life. Although these particles that are "transmuted" from these wave forms aren't really solid like you would think of a speck of dust or a granule of sand, when they were being observed, they would transmute from pure wave form into a highly intense vibration that took on the "appearance" of solidity. The "observation" of the scientist converted wave forms of "probability" into "particles" of matter.  It's also no wonder that Issac Newton came up with his conclusion. Since he was the only one studying these atoms, and his "belief" at the time was in alignment with them being solid, they DID appear solid based on his "Belief" concerning what they were. I'm going to repeat this again to make sure you REALLY "get this"... If a scientist studied this energy with the expectation (thought or belief) of seeing particles, particles were observed. If another scientist studied them with the expectation of seeing waves then waves were observed!!  This discovery further proved to the scientists that anything and everything that exists in our world once existed as a wave (spiritual) and through individual observation and expectation was transformed into a particle (made physical) based only on what they THOUGHT and BELIEVED it would appear as!!   As discovered in the laboratories, this energy, when observed,  acts in exact proportion to the way that it is "believed" that it will act and will provide a physical appearance based on the "perception" of the thinker. As these particles form they attract additional particles that harmonize with their vibrational match which transmutes from the "quantum field" and become the physical things that can be seen and observed in physical form...in the Newtonian Physics world of matter and STUFF. Now to take it even a step further, if that isn't amazing (and almost eerie) enough, something even more amazing was discovered by Max Planck which has since been named Quantum Entanglement. Don't worry, it's much simpler than it sounds. What scientists discovered as a result, is that these sub-atomic particles of energy when broken in half (separated) in a laboratory setting have the ability to communicate with each other and that communication is received immediately from one to the other, with ZERO regard to space and time as we know it, REGARDLESS of how far apart they may be. Unlike our voices when we communicate, the sound of which takes time to travel, this communication, (vibration) was received by one from the other at precisely the same time regardless of how far away they are from each other.  This totally blows away the "old" Newtonian Physics theory that nothing can travel faster than the speed of light. Energy doesn't NEED to travel...it's already interconnected with all other energy in One place simultaneously. A projection of energy in the U.S. can and does effect energy around the world instantaneously!! So what does this mean? It means that EVERYTHING in the entire cosmos is nothing but a huge vibrating ball of interconnected  infinite energy, which has the ability to communicate into infinity with no regard to space and time, and that what this energy joins together to form is based only on individual THOUGHT!!! Even the U.S. Army conducted experiments and through the work of a scientist named Cleve Baxter, has since validated this more recent discovery by taking a DNA sample from a man's mouth and as they manipulated his emotions through various visual productions on a TV while observing the DNA with sophisticated equipment, they discovered that the DNA responded and reacted immediately to the emotions of the man who it was taken from without ANY regard to space and time!! Although the Army ended it's research there, Dr. Baxter later performed the same experiment with the subject and the DNA hundreds of miles apart. Even when separated from the man by several hundred miles, the outcome was the same. The DNA responded without ANY regard to space and time. Now that you have a little deeper understanding of Quantum Physics, you're probably wondering what does all this have to do with you and what can you hope to gain from it that will enable you to begin using it to experience Abundance, Happiness and success in your own life?  Just as the subatomic particles took whatever form the scientist studying them expected them to take based on their thoughts, the events, conditions, and circumstances that make up YOUR reality take shape as you expect and believe they will!!  You quite literally have the ability to mold and shape the various areas of your life, based on how you choose to think, believe and feel!!  You are the artist that paints the picture. You are the producer and director of your own movie. If you want to change the scene on the canvas you only need use a different brush. If you don't like the scenes that are being played out in your movie you only need change the script which is responsible for creating them. If you desire to change the events, conditions, and circumstances in your life you only need change the thoughts, beliefs and emotions that are responsible for bringing them into and making them your reality. In a nutshell.....  Whatever you think about and believe to be true regardless if those beliefs are based on "real truth" or "perceived truth" are what determines how your life will unfold. Quantum Physics has shown us that there exists no such thing as "untruth" only physical experiences in each area of our life which are formed based on our individual "perceptions" of truth.   Quantum physics tells us that it is the act of observing an object (events, conditions and circumstances) that causes it to be there and the outcome is based only on our choice and how we observe it. An object cannot and does not exist independently of its observer! Put another way there is no "objective reality." The Quantum Field is an "Infinite" field of potential. Anything and everything that has, does or will exist in the Newtonian world, begins as a wave in this "quantum field" and is transformed into the physical realm, limited only by what can be conceived as truth by the observer!! Who is this observer? YOU!! Let's look at it in a more personal way...  If you believe at some level, whether consciously or subconsciously, that money is difficult to come by, the projected energy emitted and broadcast will harmonize with energy of a harmonious frequency in wave form, transmute into particles which attract additional particles that harmonize with it and your life will reflect that of money being difficult to come by.  By the same token if you believe that money flows to you effortlessly and maintain the conscious and subconscious beliefs regarding that, you will find that money becomes much more easy to acquire. Taken a step further, if you can conceive and believe in the materialization of your BIGGEST hopes dreams and desires, they already exist as a wave in the quantum field (which is INFINITE in nature) as a probability of existence only awaiting YOU to make them real.  As Quantum Physics has proven it is YOU who are responsible for WHATEVER outcomes you are experiencing in your life.   Ok, we've covered a lot of ground and although your head may be spinning and emotions running high, I encourage you to do your own due diligence and attempt to dis-prove what we have covered here. I don't expect you to, want you to, and hope that you won't, believe a single thing I say. I would much rather that you find out for yourself through your own due diligence and then put what you find to work and begin changing the life experience that you have had to this point if you should choose to do so.   Now, understanding the basics of Quantum Physics and Quantum Mechanics, all that you need to do to implement that infinite kind of power into your life is to, first of all, develop the belief that it's true (and based on my understanding, perception and experiences thus far, it is) and second begin to "consciously" put it to work in your own life and you will become empowered to change those events, conditions and circumstances that you currently find to be unpleasant.  Regardless of how deeply you may search you will find that it is 100% accurate 100% 0f the time WITHOUT FAIL, and that your life experiences happen as a result of how you think and believe they will, whether at a conscious or subconscious level.  Modern day Quantum Physics fully explains beyond any doubt that your thoughts are the things that group together and collapse energy packets, change those thoughts from a probability into a "particle" (physical matter) in a given place and time and create your life experience, whether it be physically, financially, relationally, emotionally or spiritually.  For those that may have any religious background whatsoever, you will discover if you choose to delve deeply enough that what has been discovered by modern day science is precisely what the great spiritual teachers of the world have shared and attempted to get their followers to understand for thousands upon thousands of years.  "Whatsoever ye desire when ye pray "believe" that ye receive and it shall be given to you."  For those that choose to, that is what we will cover next. The Spiritual Reality and how it "interconnects" and fits in perfectly with all of this Quantum Physics stuff. You have been provided the inalienable right of free will and given the ability to choose what you will do or not do in EVERY aspect of your life. You can choose to investigate Quantum Physics, delve more deeply into what has been shared here and discover it as truth for yourself, or continue to create your life unconsciously. You can choose to remain as the mass majority does, fully believing you are a victim or creature of circumstance, or consciously align and harmonize your actions (thoughts and beliefs) with the greatest creative Force in the Universe and become a conscious creator (or if you prefer, a co-creator) of those circumstances.  That is a choice only you can make. You and you alone are responsible for the events, conditions and circumstances that make up your life. Whether or not you choose to discover and accept it, is also your choice. We have ALL been provided the inalienable right of free will to think and believe as WE choose. Discover it, understand it,  "believe" it, and discover how to "consciously implement" that understanding and your life will transform into whatever you "believe" that it can.  Whatever choices you choose to make both today as well as in the future, it is our sincere and heartfelt hope for you that those choices might lead you one step closer to a life experience of Joy, Fulfillment, Inner Peace and Limitless Prosperity in each and every area of your life. More recent discoveries made thanks to modern day Quantum Physics is quickly transforming our world in an extremely exciting and positive way.  This interview will provide you with a much deeper understanding of not only how "cellular memory" effects the physical aspects relating to your health, but the 2nd interview provided in the links below will make it crystal clear as to how these same "cellular memories" can literally effect, positively or negatively, EVERY aspect of your life including your level of success and fulfillment.    Copyright © 2005-2018, Abundance-and-Happiness.com The Quantum Physics article and all content on Abundance-and-Happiness.com is strictly prohibited from copy or reproduction in any form without the express written consent of the author Chuck Danes and/or Enlightened Journey Enterprises. All Rights Reserved Worldwide. End Of Quantum Physics (Just fill in the fields below)      The Healing Codes    Core VI - The Navigator Core VII - Circle of Masters