Using this equipment, they successfully sent and received a series of numbers known as a key using a protocol known as quantum key distribution, or QKD, which guarantees that nobody has tampered with the numbers. QKD secures data by exploiting the strange rules of quantum mechanics. Roughly, here’s how it works: The sender beams single infrared photons oriented in different directions—polarizations—that correspond to 1s and 0s. A receiver measures those orientations. Then, the sender and receiver compare some of their numbers. In quantum mechanics, if you measure a photon’s polarization, you instantly alter it from one state to another. If a hacker had tried to intercept the photons, they would have introduced a telltale statistical error in the numbers, and you would know that the connection was not secure. “QKD gives you the confidence that the key has not changed from when it was sent,” says Donna Dodson, a cybersecurity expert at the National Institute of Standards and Technology. If the stats look good, the sender and receiver can go ahead and use that key to scramble a message. “It’s based on your trust of physics,” Peters says. This is in contrast with conventional encryption methods, which guarantee security by assuming computers aren’t fast enough to decipher their algorithms in a reasonable amount of time. Peters’ group thinks that a utility company could use quantum-encrypted data to communicate with their hardware. For someone to intercept or change a quantum-encrypted data stream, they’d have to defy quantum mechanics. The approach comes with technical challenges, of course. One challenge is simply the reality of working on the grid itself. It’s a mishmash of transformers, switches, and sundry parts installed over various years, and grafting on any new technology is difficult. “You can’t just shut the power off,” says physicist Tom Venhaus of Los Alamos National Laboratory, who collaborated on the project. “It’s like working on a car with its engine running.” EPB is planning other tests of quantum encryption, including one that sends quantum keys via wireless radio antennae instead of optical fiber, says Steve Morrison, who leads the utility company’s cybersecurity efforts. If the tests are successful, EPB could be controlling its power station hardware with quantum-encrypted commands in about five years. “I would never venture to say anything is unhackable, because I’m paid to be paranoid,” Morrison says. “But I’m hopeful about this. These systems can detect malicious intent, and that’s something I haven’t seen in any other technology.” Let’s hope they keep the lights on. WIRED has challenged IBM's Dr. Talia Gershon (Senior Manager, Quantum Research) to explain quantum computing to 5 different people; a child, teen, a college student, a grad student and a professional. CNMN Collection © 2018 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.