These days, Microsoft gets a lot of credit for its extremely diverse approach to its products. Rather than trying to force you to use its platform, as it might have done in the past, it comes to you. Wanna use Word on your iPad? Done. On a Chromebook? This isn’t 2003, we’ll cater to you. But going back a little further, it’s clear that this cutthroat behavior was not Microsoft’s original demeanor. The company, at the very beginning, was interested in being part of whatever nook and cranny it could find—partnering with firms of all stripes in the years before it became clear that IBM’s vision of the personal computer, which it also had a role shaping, had won. When first introduced in 1983, MSX had a lot going for it: off-the-shelf hardware, a lot of support from large electronics manufacturers, and the backing of Microsoft. MSX was a standards play at a time when nobody was really thinking in terms of standards, at a point when clone systems on the PC were only starting to emerge. So why haven’t you heard of it, you might be thinking? Well, it was an initiative of Microsoft Japan. It’s probably no surprise the company had a Japanese arm; it’s probably slightly surprising that the company had one so early in its history. But there’s a reason for that: The Japanese arm came to them. Around 1977, Kazuhiko Nishi, an engineering student who was the same age as Bill Gates, made a special trip to the U.S. and made the case to Gates and Paul Allen that he should start an Asian arm of the company operated by Nishi’s existing company ASCII Corp.—and immediately proved his worth by talking the Japanese electronics manufacturer NEC into creating its own line of computers around Microsoft’s software. The knowledge the company gained from the project would prove invaluable soon after, when IBM came calling. Adding to their celebrity was the impudent style of Mr. Nishi. His ability to captivate executives two and three times his age was matched only by his ability to appall them by being extravagantly rude. More than one Japanese manager recalls hearing Mr. Nishi give a formal presentation at a business meeting and then rise from his chair, stretch out on the floor and fall immediately asleep. Other times he dozed off in his seat or stared off into space breathing noisily. He also began indulging in splashy luxuries that were out of place in Japan. He hopped from appointment to appointment in a chartered helicopter, sometimes touching down dramatically at a corporation’s front door. He took up residence in an assortment of expensive hotel rooms, where he caught quick naps in between late-night and early-morning meetings. Nonetheless, Nishi’s relationships with industrial Japanese giants would become important in the mid-1980s, as a number of them were looking for a way to enter the home computer market. His solution? Build a standard that all these companies could work around—and that standard became MSX. It also provided an opportunity, Nishi argued, to further deepen the reliance of computer manufacturers on Microsoft software. The standard that Microsoft built, based on a design produced by the American computing manufacturer Spectravideo, had many of the guts of a home video game system—its Zilog Z80 processor and Texas Instruments TMS9918 video chip were key parts of both the Colecovision and the Sega SG-1000, which evolved into the American Sega Master System—and largely relied on cartridges at a time when most home computers had already moved onto floppy disks. This ultimately encouraged the system’s reputation as a computer that was really good at video games. This meant that, even though the platform was based off an American system and an American company’s hardware design, it wasn’t really produced in the U.S. at all. (Other countries with well-established computer markets, such as the United Kingdom, similarly were not pulled in by the MSX’s charms.) It was a fascinating platform, and one worth knowing more about. A scene from Vampire Killer, a Konami game for MSX that is effectively a different take on the better-known Castlevania. (MobyGames) To an outside observer, it might seem like the better comparison point for the MSX platform might be the Xbox, which like the MSX, is best known for its games. But if you look a bit more closely at the structure of the platform, it becomes clear that MSX and Windows Phone actually share much more in common than at first glance. Each was an also-ran in its given market—MSX, while successful in Japan, was a relatively small player even there, with machines from NEC, Fujitsu, and Sharp proving more successful, even though these competitors were often proprietary. MSX was ultimately an early version of what Microsoft would later do on its more tightly controlled platforms, Windows Phone in particular. MSX reflected the brilliance of Microsoft’s strategy: It wasn’t a bad bet, because Microsoft was making lots of bets and it knew that at some point, one of them was going to pay off. With MSX, Microsoft had realized, likely years before its competition, that a market full of incompatible computers was eventually going to become unsustainable. And Windows Phone played around, successfully, with the idea that users are going to want a unified interface for their systems. The computing industry has benefited for decades from the former finding; we’re already seeing Google, and to a lesser degree Apple, figure out the latter. While MSX doesn’t garner a single mention on Microsoft’s own Wikipedia page, it’s clear that it was a useful playbook for the company’s later dominance in the Windows era. It’s unfortunate that MSX has largely been downplayed as a part of Microsoft’s history, even though the history was a bit messy, as it reflects the kind of company you want to root for. It put Microsoft in the rare position of being an underdog—just like Windows Phone did. -- Ernie Smith is the editor of Tedium, and an active internet snarker. Between his many internet side projects, he finds time to hang out with his wife Cat, who's funnier than he is. Copyright © 2015-2019 Tedium: The Dull Side of the Internet. All rights reserved.