Our Theory Seminar kicked off in Spring 2018. It is meeting irregularly this semester (Spring 2019) due to faculty travel and progeny, but will be back in regular swing in the near future. The talk will be accessible to a general computer science audience. Some relevant papers are as follows. Our starting point is the Aldous-Broder algorithm, which samples a random spanning tree using a random walk. As in prior work, we use fast Laplacian linear system solvers to shortcut the random walk from a vertex v to the boundary of a set of vertices assigned to v called a "shortcutter." We depart from prior work by introducing a new way of employing Laplacian solvers to shortcut the walk. To bound the amount of shortcutting work, we show that most random walk steps occur far away from an unvisited vertex. We apply this observation by charging uses of a shortcutter S to random walk steps in the Schur complement obtained by eliminating all vertices in S that are not assigned to it. In this talk, I introduce parametrized complexity: a branch of computational complexity that classifies problems based on their hardness with respect to several parameters of the input in addition to the input size; hence it gives a much more fine-grained classification compared to the traditional worst-case analysis that is based on only the input size.  Then, I present several parametrized algorithms for computing low-cost maps between geometric objects.  The running time of these algorithms are parametrized with respect to topological and geometric parameters of the input objects.  For example, when the input is a graph, a topological parameter can be its treewidth that measures to what extent the graph looks like a tree, and a geometric parameter can be the intrinsic dimensionality of the metric space induced by shortest paths in the graph. Such algorithms work so well that, in certain applications unrelated to network analysis, such as image segmentation, it is useful to associate a network to the data, and then apply spectral clustering to the network. In addition to its application to clustering, spectral embeddings are a valuable tool for dimension-reduction and data visualization. The performance of spectral clustering algorithms has been justified rigorously when applied to networks coming from certain probabilistic generative models. A more recent development, which is the focus of this lecture, is a worst-case analysis of spectral clustering, showing that, for every graph that exhibits a certain cluster structure, such structure can be found by geometric algorithms applied to a spectral embedding. Such results generalize the graph Cheeger’s inequality (a classical result in spectral graph theory), and they have additional applications in computational complexity theory and in pure mathematics. I will first describe negative results for private data analysis via a connection to cryptographic objects called fingerprinting codes. These results show that an (asymptotically) optimal way to solve natural high-dimensional tasks is to decompose them into many simpler tasks. In the second part of the talk, I will discuss concentrated differential privacy, a framework which enables more accurate analyses by precisely capturing how simpler tasks compose. In this talk, we overview the algebraic structure of perfect matchings from the viewpoint of representation theory. We give perfect matching analogues of some familiar notions and objects in the field of Boolean functions and discuss a few fundamental differences that arise in the non-Abelian setting. The talk will conclude with a summary of some results in extremal combinatorics, optimization, and computational complexity that have been obtained from this algebraic point of view. In this talk, we will take a road trip together through a small part of the landscape.  We will start with representations of planar curves and their deformations, together with their appearance and many uses in various disciplines of math and cs.  Then we focus on a discrete representation of curve deformations called homotopy moves.  We will sketch the ideas behind a few recent results on untangling planar curves using homotopy moves, its generalization on surfaces, and the implications on solving planar graph optimization problems using electrical transformations. There are no assumptions on background knowledge in topology.  Open questions (not restricted to planar curves) will be provided during the talk. Department of Computer Science