The program prepares experts for research and development in the areas of Theoretical Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence. Education is implemented by doing independent research under the supervision of senior experts. In addition to obtaining foundations in Computer Science, the students acquire deep knowledge in a chosen specialization area such as: algorithms and data structures and their analysis, knowledge representation and reasoning, cognitive sciences and their applications, machine learning, multi-agent systems, problem modeling (e.g., in automated planning or decision making) and problem solving using logical, probabilistic, and nature-inspired methods. Students learn how to formulate research goals, prepare a project proposal to achieve the set goals, and present the results in the international environment. Further, they gain experience teaching and mentoring students including thesis supervision. Admission for studies Admission for studies will be granted to the applicants, who: Invitation to the subject entrance examination The invitation to the subject entrance examination will be sent to those applicants, who: Entrance examination The entrance examination consists of two parts, subject and language one. The subject part of the entrance examination takes the form of a discussion about the chosen study program. The committee gives the applicant three questions related to the chosen study program. The committee judges the correctness of the answer, the knowledge of the field and overall readiness for doctoral studies. Each answer is evaluated on the binary Pass/Fail scale. The applicant must obtain three passing grades. If the applicant has chosen one of the thesis topics offered by the faculty and has obtained approval of a future supervisor, or if the committee accepts the annotation of the applicant‘s own topic, the applicant will successfully pass the exam with only two passing grades from three questions. The language entrance examination consists of a written test containing 100 questions (completing gaps in a text, i.e. choosing the correct word for each gap). The exam verifies that the applicant has an adequate command of the English language, i.e. at least at level B2 of the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages (CEFR). This is an equivalent of 50 correct answers. Admission to Doctoral studies is conditioned by successful completion of a Master's study program. Waiver conditions of the subject entrance examination The subject entrance examination may be waived for applicants who have chosen one of the thesis topics offered by the faculty and obtained approval of a future supervisor, and for whom at least one of the following conditions applies: It is necessary to apply for the waiver and prove that the applicant satisfies some of the above conditions, by no later than May 31, 2019, in case of points 1,2,3,5 and 6, and by June 20 in case of point 4. Conditions for a language examination waiver The language examination will be waived if the applicant fulfills at least one of the following waiver conditions: The language examination waiver and the compliance with one of the conditions mentioned above must be requested before April 30, 2019 (or, in exceptional cases, before September 30, 2019). A graduate has knowledge in all important areas of theoretical computer science and artificial intelligence such as design and analysis of algorithms and data structures, processing big data and solving complex problems requiring the integration of more approaches. He/she can use it competently in both individual and teamwork, apply it in practice and communicate it to other members of the team. He/she has the knowledge and skills for a systematic gathering, critical processing, and application of ideas and information which are necessary for solving new complex problems (both theoretical and applied). He/she is capable to keep up with the development of his/her field. A graduate finds jobs in R&D institutions and on universities worldwide, and in IT companies in research, development, expert and manager positions.