Commencing pasta from 3/24/2015 post How strong is the UW CSE program? How can I get accepted to the program right out of high school? Ok, if I'm not accepted through the DA program, what does it take to get it through upper level admission? A few definitive resources on how competitive upper level admissions is: Should I go to UW if I am dead set on doing UW CSE? What criteria do admissions look at? What alternatives do I have if I want to go into software development? What alternatives do I have if I want to go into a more hardware-focused computer engineering field? Should I retake X class? How else can I prove myself? What major pathways are available to a CSE major? What about (X thing not in the FAQ)? I've heard that CSE recently received several large donations, is currently building a new building, and is now a school instead of a department. How does that affect my admission chances? I've decided that I want to try and pursue CSE. Where can I find advice on doing well in my prerequisites? I hope this helps everyone in their decision making processes when considering UW CSE! I can vouch that it is a fantastic program and UW as a whole has great opportunities for everyone. Please let me know if there are any improvements for this guide, other important resources to look at, or anything you think is plain wrong. I want this subreddit to be a place for students to get a better sense of the community and standards here at UW. Thanks for reading! Quora Links including answers from CSE alum (might need to block cookies from Quora to view) 13.3k Subscribers 249 Online The Unofficial Subreddit of the University of Washington Overview Welcome to the unofficial subreddit of the University of Washington! This subreddit is a place to post links and stories relating to events and happenings in and around the University of Washington. Before posting a question, consider reading some of the sidebar links, or searching the sub.  There's a good chance there's already been a discussion on what you want to ask! Useful Links UW Website Subreddit Wiki - Feel Free to Contribute! General FAQ and Information Post by a Foster's alum (not business specific) Prospective CSE Major FAQ HCDE Advisor AMA Engineering Admission Statistics (through 2014) Getting into Closed Classes Related Subreddits /r/pac12 /r/uwgrad