VIM Adventures is an online game based on VIM's keyboard shortcuts (commands, motions and operators). It's the "Zelda meets text editing" game. It's a puzzle game for practicing and memorizing VIM commands (good old VI is also covered, of course). It's an easy way to learn VIM without a steep learning curve. You play a blinking cursor appearing one day in a semi text based world of Textland inhabited by little people but ruled by bugs. You soon discover that your arrival was foretold by an old prophecy and that you're expected to restore order to the world (in case you didn't make it to level 2 yet...). You start the game with only the ability to move up, down, left, and right. As you progress, you talk to people and collect items and keyboard buttons. Each keyboard button adds to the set of commands you can give the cursor, until you master VIM. You can also perform operations such as login, load and save game and others using the in-game menu at the bottom of the screen. For a complete list of commands you can type in the command line mode, please type ':help :' (without the quotes). These instructions are all you need to know. Hints scattered throughout the game help you and ease the learning process. You can't advance to the next level until you master a skill! The little people of Textland have a lot of helpful tips to share so make sure you talk with each and every one by bumping into them. In addition, every time you pick up a keyboard key, an explanation of what the key does and how it should be used is displayed. This window can be closed using ESC (as any other window in this game) and you can walk through the example using the '+' and '-' keys. You can get help on additional keys using the syntax ':help {char}' by replacing {char} with the character or word you would like to get help on. You can also type a topic such as 'registers' or 'text-objects' to get help on that topic. See below for a full list of possible arguments for the :help command. If you don't remember which keys you collected so far, or need to refresh your memory a little, you can click on the keyboard icon in the in-game menu, or type ':keyboard' to see a keyboard with your current available keys highlighted. Clicking or pressing on a key will show a short description of its function. What players say Shortcuts, commands and motions taught It's going to be a lot of fun! This game was designed and programmed by Doron Linder. © Doron Linder, 2012 - 2019. All rights reserved. The following artworks are used under the creative commons license: The following sounds are used under the creative commons license: Replay any level you've already unlocked by typing :level <level-number> (e.g. :level 6). Show in-game statistics by typing ':set stats', and hide them by typing ':set nostats'. Press Esc to return to the game There's so much more... You can't save the world using an ancient browser... Everybody knows that!  Your browser doesn't support the canvas element required for running this game.  See you soon! Here it's going to be!!! Please fill in a valid email address to be linked to your license. This email address will function as your username when you login and will also be used to reset your password in case you forget it. Please fill in the recipient's email address. This email address will be used during login and password reset. Please fill in your own email address. We'll send a printable gift license to this address for you to print or forward to the recipient if you'd like. Please fill in a valid email address to be linked to your license. This email address will function as your username when you login and will also be used to reset your password in case you forget it. OK, OK, OK...  Yes, VIM allows using the cursor keys in order to move around so this game also allows it. However, for a pure VIM experience you should stick to using 'h', 'j', 'k' and 'l'. It's considered more efficient since you don't have to move your hand from the home row when you're typing. But since this game allows both, you can decide what's best for you.  Press Esc to return to the game. Another VIM-Adventures session with your username was opened. In order to prevent data corruption this session had to be restarted. If you didn't start another session, somebody could be using your credentials. It might be a good time to change your password. Please press space, ESC or Enter to close this dialog. Please press space, ESC or Enter to close this dialog.     