Easily locate highly ranked doctors for experience and quality. See reviews from patients and make sure they are in your network. Vim provides you with a list of past and present medications, making it easy to share with your doctor. Get easy to understand notifications for out of pocket costs and track your spending to maintain a comprehensive view of your medical expenses. Once you activate your account, you’ll get care notifications that will help you stay on top of your health and make the most of your benefits. Managing your health can create a lot of uncertainty, anxiety, fear and mistrust. Vim takes your healthcare and puts it back in your own hands. We work with your health plan and your doctors to help make the right healthcare choices simple and easy. “That was, wow, nothing is that easy. That was extremely helpful and easy, all at the same time.” “Awesome- I love it! I just got my appt through the app - thanks so much!” “Clear and precise costs, fast, and easy to use” “Very easy to understand and use the interface. Gave me options that made sense for me and took all the mystery out of what this was going to cost.” © VIM 2019 We will be in touch with you within two business days Oron is the CEO of Vim. Oron leads corporate strategy/business development and aligns team members, product, customers and partners with the company’s mission to improve the overall value of health care. Following his service in a specialist unit of the Israel Defense Forces, Oron founded and led business development for 4 companies in telecommunications, gaming, real estate and education. Oron graduated summa cum laude from the IDC in Herzliya, Israel with degrees in law and business administration. Asaf is the CTO of Vim. Asaf leads Vim’s long-term technology vision and is responsible for supervising all development and innovation efforts. Asaf started his career in the Israel Air Force, where he served as a captain in an elite technology unit for over 6 years. He held several positions starting as a developer and evolving into a project manager. After his military service, Asaf founded and served as the CTO for TixWise, a  technology company that developed a marketplace for entertainment tickets and is now the market leader in Israel. Asaf also founded Bink, an innovative technology-based internet bank. In both ventures, Asaf led the development process, was in charge of both solution architecture and product design to realize the product vision. Eugene is Chief Medical and Compliance Officer of Vim where he leads development and implementation of Vim’s clinical strategy and compliance. He completed residency at Johns Hopkins where he led national quality improvement initiatives. He worked at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Innovation Center aligning payment policy to the reduction of hospital-acquired harm across 3,500 American hospitals. He is dual board certified in Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, maintains a clinical practice and is on the teaching faculty for Stanford’s Clinical Excellence Research Center. Eugene has worked at Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation, The Monitor Group, and 3V SourceOne Venture Capital. He completed undergraduate at Duke University and is a proud MD/MBA graduate of the Geisel School of Medicine and Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. Omer is the VP product of Vim where he leads the product vision and execution. He has a deep technical background and a passion for products. In his career, Omer has worked at several technology corporations including Mercury, which was acquired by HP and Retalix, which was acquired by NCR. In addition, Omer was responsible for the product for companies in various industries: algo trading , property management, and digital content. Prior joining Vim, Omer served as head of Product and Operations for IronSource, one of the most successful startups in Israel.  Omer holds a BA in computer science and an MBA from Tel Aviv University. He served as a combat soldier in one of Israel Defense Forces’ elite units and participated in various special operations. Peter is the VP of Product Operations at Vim. He is responsible for Vim’s provider strategy and operations which includes network adequacy, onboarding, and engagement. Peter has over 10 years of experience in healthcare and has held leadership roles with national and global healthcare companies in Sydney, London, and New York. Prior to joining Vim, Peter worked at Oscar insurance, where he led the implementation of Oscar’s national ancillary networks and management of Oscar’s provider network partners. Prior to Oscar, Peter worked for the global health insurer Bupa, holding multiple roles focused on channel strategy and operations. Peter successfully implemented programs that transformed the channel experience for millions of Bupa members annually. Peter is a graduate of Monash University in Melbourne, Australia. Erin is Senior Director of Design and User Experience at Vim where she leads branding, user experience, and visual design efforts. During her 12+ years as a designer, she’s created effective eCommerce websites for clients such as TOMS Shoes and Disney, managed design for products at eBay and crafted engaging experiences for corporate events at Magento. Erin graduated from Berklee College of Music where she majored in Songwriting. Her lifelong pursuit of the arts paired with a proclivity toward patterns and systems led her to her career in design. Ari is the VP of Account Management at Vim and a software industry customer success speaker and mentor. He has built his career shaping and scaling early-stage companies. Ari has led complex, transformative technology implementations across industries and at some of the largest and most influential companies in the world, including Apple, Google, Microsoft, American Public Media, the New York Times, Walmart, and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Ari graduated from the University of Michigan with a degree in Industrial and Operations Engineering. After his military service, Moran served as the CTO of Synairgy which developed an air traffic control management system for the commercial use of drones. Chen is a senior software developer at Vim. He began his career in the Israel Defense Forces in the elite Air Force technology unit where he served for 6 years while holding several positions with increasing responsibility. He began as a software programmer, then was given responsibility for operational systems and went on to become a team leader. Chen completed a B.Sc. in Computer Science and received 2 certificates of excellence. Besides programming, Chen loves music and plays both the piano and the guitar. J.P. is the VP of Operations at Vim where he is responsible for setting the company up for rapid, responsible growth. He is focused on developing the infrastructure to support team building, financial performance, procurement, and generally business health. Prior to Vim, J.P. led Operations at Stride Health, where he helped the company triple the size of the team and experience non-linear revenue growth over his tenure. He also recruited, developed, and led a 20+ person Operations team. Before Stride, J.P. spent 9+ years at Booz & Company (formerly Booz Allen Hamilton) doing Management Consulting. He specialized in consumer driven strategy, operational design, and operating model. He left Booz as a Principal. J.P. graduated from UCLA with a B.S. in Biology, and is an avid traveler, a sports junky, and a lover of the outdoors.  Nandy is the CISO of Vim where he leads Vim’s information security function and is responsible for supervising all of Vim’s security initiatives. Nandy started his career in the Israel Defense Forces. After leaving the IDF, Nandy held several positions of increasing responsibility within the information security function in highly regulated verticals. Nandy comes to Vim as part of his distinguished career in Information Security. Nandy is a Certified Information Systems Security Professional (“CISSP”) with a background in engineering and degrees in economics and business management. Peretz is VP of Product and Data at Vim, where he is responsible for making sure we build products our customers want that also create value to the healthcare system as a whole. Peretz founded and led product at Y-Combinator backed Sourcery with the vision of bringing transparency to our food supply chain. He co-founded and led data at Restaurant Cheetah, a fast-growing restaurant supply fulfillment company. Peretz has a MPhil in Literature from Cambridge University and a PhD in Biophysics/Biochemistry from the University of California, San Francisco. He served as a National Science Foundation fellow in Beijing and supported a DARPA funded initiative in Afghanistan installing internet infrastructure at hospitals and schools. He coached an Afghan regional basketball team to a national championship in Kabul. Judy is the Director of Legal at Vim where she has overall responsibility for all legal affairs of the company. Prior to Vim, Judy served on the legal teams at General Electric Company (GE) and, before that, Brocade Communications, Inc, after almost a decade in private practice at international law firms. Judy originally hails from the UK where she graduated from Queen Mary University of London School of Law, and she subsequently completed her professional legal studies at The University of Law London and The University of Hong Kong.   Sara is the Director of Talent at Vim. She brings in diverse experience including recruiting, people operations, and human resources. Prior to joining Vim, Sara worked in a fast-paced start-up environment, building out the talent function, and before that spent nine successful years in the technical staffing industry. Sara leads Vim’s recruiting, people operations, and human resources functions, while constantly focusing on evolving Vim’s culture. She spends most of her day thinking about how to attract, develop, and retain world-class talent. Having recruited for hundreds of companies across industries and geographies, Sara is a gem. When she isn’t building Vim’s talent infrastructure, you can find her listening to old-school country music and cheering on her Green Bay Packers (even in the offseason). Meng is the Director of Finance at Vim. She brings in diverse finance experience including FP&A, Treasury, Private Equity, Payment, and M&A. Prior to joining Vim, Meng worked in a fast-paced start-up environment and built the finance function from the ground up. Meng leads Vim’s accounting, finance, and investor relations. She spends most of her day building the company business through strategic advisory, financial planning and data analysis. Meng holds CFA charter and MS in Global Management from Thunderbird School of Global Management. She lived in multiple cities around the globe and loves exploring different cultures and cuisines. “Intent without action and impact is the unfortunate norm in healthcare.  VIM starts with intent but closes the loop, intercepting the patient at a teachable moment, guiding care, enabling that interaction to ensure engagement is actually scheduled and completed and finally delivering measurable, objective outcomes that result.” Larry Leisure is a Co-Founder and Managing Director of Chicago Pacific Founders, a Chicago and San Francisco private equity fund focused on senior living and care delivery services.  In addition, he serves as Chairman of Washington, D.C. based ADVI that provides advisory services to the digital health, life sciences and managed care services industries. Larry has had a distinguished career in healthcare, serving in venture capital, private equity, management consulting and industry operating roles.  Organizations, where he has held senior leadership positions, include Accenture as Global Managing Partner for the Health Vertical; Price Waterhouse where he led their Employer and Payer Managed Care Practice; Willis Towers Watson’s predecessor company Towers Perrin where he led their Group Benefits and Managed Care practices; Kaiser Foundation Health Plans where he oversaw national sales & account management; and UnitedHealth Group where oversaw the Payer Segment for Ingenix Consulting (now Optum Health). In 2009 Larry founded AccelusHealth Partners, LLC that merged with HillcoHealth to form ADVI in 2013.  He also co-founded Healthspottr, a new media company focused on the acceleration of innovation in health care.  He serves as a board member for several health-related companies, including iN2L, P3, and Recovery Ways. Larry received his AB in Economics from Stanford University and his MBA in Finance from the  University of California, Los Angeles. “A clear winner in the making: they actually meet the needs of employees for higher quality care at lower costs. That’s why we have them come teach each year at Dartmouth in our “The Employers Role in Healthcare” focused courses.” Mike Zubkoff is Director, MD-MBA Program at Dartmouth; Associate Dean, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth; Faculty Director, Healthcare Initiative at Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth; and Professor of Health Economics and Management at the Geisel School of Medicine, Tuck School of Business, and The Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice. He is a Member of the National Academy of Medicine, of the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine (the youngest member ever elected). Professor Zubkoff served as Professor and Chair of the Department of Community and Family Medicine at Dartmouth Medical School and Hitchcock Medical Center from 1975 to 2015. Mike has served as a Director or Trustee of a number of foundations, corporations, and universities over the years. Currently Professor Zubkoff is a member of the Board of Directors, and co-founder, of GoHealth Urgent Care, a TPG portfolio company; a Director of WelbeHealth, an F-Prime Capital and .406 Ventures-backed startup providing integrated medical and social services to the frail elderly; and former Director of Groups: Recover Together, an RRE Ventures, Bessemer Venture Partners and Thrive Capital Ventures-backed company serving the needs of  those with opioid addictions. Mike also serves as a Member of Scientific Advisory Board at Calibrater Health, LLC which provides text-based surveys for patients and automated feedback management for healthcare teams. Professor Zubkoff has served as a correspondent/member of the National Academy of Sciences’ Committee on Human Rights for over 20 years. He served as Vice Chair of the Department of Family and Community Health at Meharry Medical College from 1967 to 1975. He was Assistant/Associate Professor of Economics and Director of the Health Services Research Training Programs (Ph.D. and Masters) at Vanderbilt University, in Nashville, Tennessee. From 1967 to 1970 he also taught at Fisk University under the Woodrow Wilson Fellowship Foundation’s Teaching Fellows Program. From 1965 to 1974, he served in a number of positions (including President, Vice President, Treasurer and Secretary) within the Medical Committee for Human Rights’ southern branch, which coordinated medical coverage at the Civil Rights Marches being led by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., throughout the south. Mike has been the recipient of several honorary degrees and currently serves as a Trustee of the American University of Kosovo. He completed his studies at Columbia University under Professors William Vickrey (Nobel Laureate in Economics) and Eli Ginzberg. “Vim’s strategy to provide “smart links” between health plans, primary care providers, patients, and the downstream specialists and services they need is both well-conceived and timely for efforts to better coordinate care.” Dr. Glaseroff is a national leader in preventing costly health crises. He serves as faculty at Stanford’s Clinical Excellence Research Center as an Adjunct Professor of Medicine and was Co-Founder and Co-Director of Stanford Coordinated Care, a program for patients with complex chronic illness and high cost. He also currently served as national faculty for the Institute of Healthcare Improvement’s “Better Care, Lower Cost” collaborative 2015-17, as the Director of Workforce Transformation in Primary Care at Stanford where he was responsible for training the teams for Primary Care 2.0, a radical redesign of primary care. He currently works at Stanford’s Clinical Excellence Research Center with Dr. Arnie Milstein to help develop and spread new models of care. He is also a member of the Innovation Brain Trust for the UniteHERE Health Fund, and coaches their health promoters in Atlantic City, NJ and nationally. Dr. Glaseroff was named the “California Family Physician of the Year” for 2009. His focus is on the intersection of the meaning of patient-centered team care, patient activation, and the key role of self-management within the context of chronic conditions. He received his MD from Case Western Reserve. “Vim will not only connect the last mile but will enable critical information sharing on where to go, what you need to do and vastly improve the patient experience.” Kent Marquardt is the CEO of Maverick Advisors, LLC. Maverick specializes in innovation and strategy with healthcare companies. Maverick has a special focus on companies using analytics and customer engagement to attack inefficiencies in health care costs. Kent is currently an outside director for Cardinal Analytx and an advisor for Landmark and Health Velocity Capital. Kent was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer at Premera Blue Cross. He was responsible for the Premera family of companies’ finance, actuarial, corporate informatics, underwriting, and healthcare economics departments. He also had responsibility for the Innovation program and Strategic Investments and was part of the Executive Leadership Team that drove overall strategy and long-term direction. Prior to Premera, Kent was with American Dental Specialist Inc., where he served as the chief executive officer. Prior to that, he was the chief operating officer of western operations and chief financial officer of the western operations of MedPartners, Inc., the nation’s largest publicly held physician practice management company. He was CFO for PriMed Management Consulting, Inc. (Hill Physicians management company). He was with KPMG Peat Marwick for 19 years and was a partner in the Los Angeles and Phoenix offices. He holds a bachelor’s degree in business administration from the University of Wisconsin–Whitewater and a master’s degree in business administration from the University of Wisconsin. “Vim is deploying an unparalleled solution that solves a universally unmet need to ensure consumers of healthcare utilize high-value providers.  After being in the provider network business for over 25 years as well as founding Leverage Health, VIM’s model is exactly what the health plans need to achieve their objectives of creating narrow networks while also delivering a best practice consumer experience” Richard is a Managing Member of Leverage Health and is an enthusiastic and tireless proponent of driving transformative growth in an ever-changing marketplace.  Richard founded Leverage Health as a means to deliver best-practice solutions from leading service companies to healthcare stakeholders. The firm has experienced year after year growth in sales, referenceable clients, and Portfolio Companies and has developed an expanded team of leading healthcare professionals that bring unique perspectives and insights to the industry’s most challenging problems. Prior to founding Leverage Health in 2007, Richard was senior vice president of business development at HealthPlan Services, a leading business process outsourcing firm servicing health plans, associations, and Taft Hartley plans, where he was responsible for record sales. Between 2001 and 2005, Richard held senior leadership positions overseeing sales and business development with MedAvant Healthcare Solutions (previously ProxyMed, PILL: NASDAQ). From 1998 to 2001, Richard was vice president of sales overseeing all revenue for PlanVista Solutions where he worked with the industry’s premier payers. In 1993, Richard was an original employee at the launch of National Preferred Provider Network (NPPN), one of the nation’s largest PPOs, and worked with them through 1998 when the company was sold to HealthPlan Services. At NPPN, Richard was responsible for virtually all original and subsequent large payer sales. Between 1992 and 1993, Richard was with Medical Administrators, a full-service insurance agency and TPA, which handled small group and individual insurance sales as well as Self-Insured Employers. Richard’s tactical and leadership roles have allowed him to develop deep experience and tenured market knowledge related to healthcare payer sales and strategies. This knowledge and firsthand experience drive Leverage Health to provide healthcare payers with innovative solutions that optimize efficiencies and generate revenue. Joshua Riff is a healthcare innovator with a passion for driving consumer centered solutions. Currently, Josh serves as the CEO of the newly formed precision care company building virtual diabetes clinics, Onduo. Onduo is a Sanofi and Verily backed company that uses analytics and behavioral science to help people with diabetes live their best life. Onduo is focused on delivering better outcomes by combining software and hardware solutions with coaching services. Prior to Onduo, Josh was the Senior Vice President of Prevention and Well being at Optum. Prior to that, Dr. Riff served as Chief Medical Director at Target, where he ran the health plan for Target team members and provided medical oversight to their clinics and pharmacies. He completed his M.D. and M.B.A. at Tufts University in conjunction with Brandeis University in Boston, Mass. After medical school he completed his residency in Emergency Medicine at Johns Hopkins Hospital. He spent ten years practicing medicine as an emergency room physician. When not working he can be found with family, his dog, or participating in endurance events.