To start Emacs run: or, to use it from the console: or, for fast loading (no .emacs) and editing within CLI: If you installed the nox version, 'emacs' and 'emacs -nw' will be the same. A file name can also be provided to open that file immediately: By default, Emacs starts with a color theme showing hyperlinks in dark blue. To start Emacs on a text terminal without any color theme or scheme: This will cause all text to appear in the foreground color of the terminal — normally white text on a black background, or black text on a white background. In order to avoid reloading the Emacs config file every time Emacs starts, you can run Emacs as a daemon: You may then connect to the daemon by running: A systemd unit is included in Emacs 26.1. The unit is installed with Emacs, but it must be enabled after installing Emacs: Run this command as the user you want to run the Emacs server as; do not run the command as root. After the service is started, Emacs is ready. The unit file is stored in /usr/lib/systemd/user/emacs.service. Here is the contents of the unit file for reference: It is also recommended to change any GUI start menu entries (or equivalent) for Emacs to point to emacsclient instead of emacs, so that the emacs daemon is used instead of starting a new emacs process. If you really want to master Emacs, the most recommended source of documentation remains the official manuals: Some users prefer to read books using 'info' because of its convenient shortcuts, its paragraphs adapting to window width and the font adapted to current screen resolution. Some find it less irritating to the eyes. Finally you can easily copy content from the book to any Emacs buffer, and you can even execute Lisp code snippets directly from the examples. TRAMP (Transparent Remote Access, Multiple Protocols) is an extension which, as its name suggests, provides transparent access to remote files across a number of protocols.  When prompted for a filename, entering a specific form will invoke TRAMP.  Some examples: To prompt for the root password before opening /etc/hosts with root permissions: To connect to 'remotehost' as 'you' via SSH and open the file ~/example.txt: The path for TRAMP is typically of the form '/[protocol]:[[user@]host]:<file>'. To connect to 'myhost' as 'you' and edit /etc/hosts with sudo: TRAMP supports much more than the examples above might indicate.  For more information refer to the TRAMP info manual, which is distributed with Emacs. By default, Git provides support for using Emacs' Emerge mode as a merge tool. However you may prefer the Ediff mode. Unfortunately this mode is not supported by git for technical reasons. There is still a way to use it by evaluating some elisp code upon emacs call. Note that the command has to be on a single line. In the above example, we launch a new instance of Emacs. You might want to use emacsclient for quicker startup; it is not recommended though since the Ediff call is not really clean: it could mess with your current Emacs session. where the light configuration file loads only what you need for Ediff. Some users like this behavior to avoid the so-called 'emacs pinky'. If you want to try it on X, just run If you are missing your Caps Lock function, map it as both "Shift" at same time. You can use several configurations and tell Emacs to load one or the other. For example, let us define two configuration files. And now we launch Emacs with You can create an alias to ease the call. You can define variables in your configuration file that can be later one modified locally for a file. Custom variables are considered unsafe by default. If you try to open a file that contains local variable redefining custom variables, Emacs will ask you for confirmation. You can declare the variable as secure, thus removing the Emacs prompt for confirmation. You need to specify a predicate that any new value has to verify so that it can be considered safe. In the previous example, if you attempt to set anything else than a string, Emacs will consider it insecure. See also: Emacs is a powerful LaTeX editor. This is mostly due to the fact you can adapt or create a LaTeX mode to fit your needs best. SyncTeX support is viewer-dependent. Here we will use Zathura as an example, so the code needs to be adapted if you want to use another PDF viewer. Here we define our custom variable. If you are using AucTeX or Emacs default LaTeX-mode, you will have to set the viewer accordingly. Alternatively, you can simply tell emacs to colour systemd files (services, timer, etc.), by adding this to your init file: to your configuration file. Other packages should let you know how to activate them in the commentary section of their source code or in their README. By default, the Emacs shell will show raw escape sequences used to print colors. In other words, it will display strange symbols in place of the desired colored output. Slow startup times are often caused by one of two things. To determine which it might be, run Emacs with: you might use: The most common cause of this error is the 'load-path' variable not including the path to the directory within which the extension is located.  To solve this, add the appropriate path to the list to be searched prior to attempting to load the extension: If compiling Emacs by hand, keep in mind that the default prefix is '/usr/local'. Explaining the problem: in recent versions of b72 This is because terminals are more limited than Xorg. Some terminals may handle more bindings than other, though. Two solutions: Example: Due to its single-threaded nature, many operations block Emacs. This could happen in a few ways. For example, Emacs may be waiting for input from you (e.g. you've opened the minibuffer in one frame but are trying to work in another). Alternatively, Emacs could be running code that simply takes a while to finish. Or perhaps you've run across a bug. There are several ways of trying to unblock Emacs without killing the Emacs process. in your .emacs file. Graphical Emacs does not suffer from this issue. Export these values in your .bashrc or .zshrc: It can be a source of errors since in Linux distributions the correct values use lowercase utf (e.g. en_US.utf-8) To view all available locales use locale -a Because this will break other key combinations, put the following in your emacs config. To force Emacs to maximize completely in KDE, click the Emacs icon in the title bar, and select More Actions > Special Window Settings. Then in the "Size & Position" tab, select "Obey geometry restrictions", choose "Force" in the dropdown menu, and select "No" from the radio buttons on the right. There are numerous "smaller" implementations of Emacs. GNU/Emacs is probably the most popular. Some lightweight Emacs compatible alternatives will be listed here: