XSS is the most common security vulnerability in software today. This should not be the case as XSS is easy to find and easy to fix. XSS vulnerabilities can have consequences such as tampering and sensitive data theft. Struggling with fixing a code weakness? Knowledgeable consultants at Veracode can help you out.  Persistent XSS Consider a web application that allows users to enter a username that is displayed on each user’s profile page. The application stores each username in a local database. A malicious user notices that the web application fails to sanitize the username field and inputs malicious JavaScript code as part of their username. When other users view the attacker’s profile page, the malicious code automatically executes in the context of their session. Impact of Cross-Site Scripting XSS vulnerabilities may occur if:    XSS Cheat Sheet: Prevent a Cross-Site Scripting Attack Download the FREE XSS Cheat Sheet  Learn best practices from the pros at Veracode. Veracode is a leading provider of enterprise-class application security, seamlessly integrating agile security solutions for organizations around the globe. In addition to application security services and secure devops services, Veracode provides a full security assessment to ensure your website and applications are secure, and ensures full enterprise data protection. Application protection services from Veracode include white box testing, and mobile application security testing, with customized solutions that eliminate vulnerabilities at all points along the development life cycle. *Gartner Peer Insights reviews constitute the subjective opinions of individual end users based on their own experiences and do not represent the views of Gartner or its affiliates. **Gartner does not endorse any vendor, product or service depicted in its research publications, and does not advise technology users to select only those vendors with the highest ratings or other designation. Gartner research publications consist of the opinions of Gartner's research organization and should not be construed as statements of fact. Gartner disclaims all warranties, expressed or implied, with respect to this research, including any warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose.