Read news about The Boeing Co. and other commercial and military aerospace companies such as Airbus, Lockheed-Martin, Northrop Grumman and Raytheon; airplane facilities in Everett, Renton, Seattle and Charleston, S.C.; Alaska Airlines and other carriers; NASA and space firms SpaceX, Blue Origin and Virgin Galactic; and local technology firms such as Aerojet Rocketdyne. Ethiopian officials are getting close to releasing their early findings on the March 10 crash that killed all on board. Scrutiny has focused on the aircraft's anti-stall system, which also is suspected of contributing to a crash off Indonesia last year. The Senate Democratic leader wants Boeing suspended from the Aviation Rulemaking Advisory Committee, which makes recommendations on airline industry regulations. Preliminary flight data from the Boeing 737 Max jet's black-box recorder indicates that an anti-stall system that was added to the model was pushing the... TUI is the biggest 737 Max operator in Europe after Norwegian Air Shuttle ASA, with 15 of the planes in its fleet of 150 aircraft. The conclusion, relayed at an FAA briefing Thursday, is the strongest indication yet that the same system malfunctioned in both the Ethiopian Airlines flight and... Although the MAX crisis was never going to be easy to manage, observers say Boeing made it worse with a response that was legalistic, slow,... A final WTO ruling upheld its decision that the major part of the Washington state tax breaks to Boeing are illegal subsidies. But those tax... REYKJAVIK, Iceland (AP) — Icelandic budget airline WOW Air collapsed under its financial problems on Thursday, leading it to ground planes and leave passengers stranded... Lawmakers question the FAA’s role in approving the Boeing 737 MAX and the underlying safety software, known as MCAS. That system was a new feature... A U.S. Senate subcommittee is questioning regulators about safety in the airline industry in the wake of two 737 MAX crash. The aircraft, with a dining area and bedroom, has a list price of about $73 million. It began deliveries in December.