But Altman, a wiry 32-year-old who himself is wearing a zip-up hoodie, hits the brakes on the lovefest. “When is this going to launch?” he asks. The founder says the app is six months out. ——— The bro jabbers an excuse about a technical cofounder off on a Mexico vacation, but Altman is unmoved. “In six months the world will look entirely different,” he says, firing off words like a Jeopardy champion disgorging the correct answer. “Speed and execution matter!” This is part of Altman’s master scheme to remake the world using startup values. Since its beginning as a loose summer experiment with eight aspiring companies, YC has grown to an assembly line processing startups at rate of over 250 a year. All of them get mentoring from in-house experts, free cloud storage, and a $120,000 investment for a 7 percent stake in their companies, which in many cases were only vague ideas a few weeks earlier. But those perks are secondary to two huge edges that come with a Golden Ticket of a YC invite. The first is instant access to an alumni network of over 1,500 companies and 3,500 founders who’ve been through the program, including deca-unicorns like Airbnb, Dropbox, and Stripe. This network, a not-so-secret society of startup royalty, is a treasure trove of master-class advice and, depending on the startup, an instant customer base. The second advantage is the instant credibility with investors that comes from being in the program. After three months, companies wind up with seed funding or even Series A money averaging $1.42 million (as of the most recent batch). How a 1950s Egg Farm Hatched the Modern Startup Incubator The Biggest Cliché in Tech Is Hurting Cities The Ace Networker Will Connect You Now Rural America's Future Is Riding on a Cell Signal This was part of the thinking of YC’s founder, Paul Graham (reverently known to the startup community as “PG”), who once wrote that he secretly saw his program as a hack to populate the world with more startups—eventually aligning the world’s thinking with that of the ambitious founders he loved. Kind of like dosing the economic water supply with a startup-friendly form of LSD. But beyond the sentiment, Graham and his cofounder Jessica Livingston were too overwhelmed by growing the program to take broad steps towards this goal. Altman never seems overwhelmed. As soon as he took over in 2014, he began stretching in a number of surprising areas, like cofounding an artificial intelligence lab with Elon Musk and instigating plans to to build an experimental city. To YC’s fold, Altman has recruited moonshot-oriented startups in supersonic air travel and nuclear fusion; he's also begun a continuity fund to invest millions in promising YC alumni firms that seek money in later rounds. “We want to enable the most innovation of any company in the world, because we believe that is how you make the future great for everyone,” he tells me not long after final session in early June, stretching out in a conference room at YC’s headquarters on a street called Pioneer Way. The MOOC is a prime example.  The ten-week course livestreamed lectures and office hours to the 50,000 wanna-be entrepreneurs who enrolled, but also gave 7,746 founders in 2820  companies personalized advice for their nascent projects, drawing on YC’s network for volunteer mentors.  “In human history, that was the most start-ups ever advised by one organization at one time,” Altman tells me. The prospect delights him. “This is amazing, right? Like, it wasn't that many years ago people didn't think there could be ten thousand start ups a year [everywhere]—and now we're saying we're going to advise ten thousand at once!” “I’m sure there is an upper limit somewhere, but I don't think we're anywhere near it today,” Altman says. “We'll find that out when we hit it but I know we're not close.” Easy to say, since YC has made a lot of its partners—who not only participate in the investment funds but also often make investments of their own in the very best companies in the program—very, very rich. Early on, Graham figured out the cadence for the twice-yearly batches. A few weeks before the session, the four YC partners (Graham, Livingston, and his former Viaweb cronies) would sift through the applications and call in the promising ones for a week of interviews that tested not only the idea of the startup but the mettle of the founders.  At the end of each interviewing day, Graham would call those chosen with a formal offer, demanding an immediate answer. (He once joked to me that this was a virtual IQ test, presumably because those who said no weren’t smart enough to be in the program.) YC’s investment in those startups was $20,000 or less, depending on how many founders the company had. Y Combinator in 2005. The session itself was an intense three months, centered around building a product. Along with experienced product people like Paul Buchheit (the father of Gmail), Graham and his partners would dispense advice during office hours. Graham would often hold office hours while walking down the cul-de-sac of Pioneer Way, with founders trailing him like acolytes of Socrates, hanging on his every word. Every Tuesday there would be a dinner of a carb-heavy concoction like chili or stew, followed by a talk by a tech luminary, who might be anyone from Marissa Mayer to Mark Zuckerberg. The numbers kept rising. The attention kept rising, as more of YC's companies found success. Though many companies failed—in fact, most of them, because that’s what happens even with well-advised and vetted startups—a well-publicized set of winners was acquired by bigger companies for millions, sometimes hundreds of millions. Others kept growing until horns sprouted from their horse-like foreheads. And as the tech sector became richer, investors found themselves with more money to spend than good companies to spend it on. A YC pedigree became a seal of approval to funders, and for founders. “If a YC company asks for a meeting, will I always take it? Yes,” says M.G. Siegler, a venture capitalist at GV (formerly Google Ventures). Y Combinator in 2009. As the program’s value became known, the founders shifted from all college dropouts and recent grads. Experienced engineers and big-deal product managers, the kind of people who would have no trouble raising their own capital, began applying to YC, drawn by the advice, the rigor of their product development, and the network of connections. Dan Siroker, a former star product manager at Google, put aside his qualms and entered YC in 2010. He wound up coming up with the idea for what is now Optimizely (which in 2015 had a funding round at a valuation of over $550 million) while in the program. “We didn’t go as far to say, 'Are we too good for YC?'” he says.  “But we thought hard. Now, where we are today we owe to YC.” With bigger batches and bigger stakes, by 2010 the pressure was increasing as well. Things were supposed to get easier after two outside investors, Yuri Milner and Ron Conway, decided to give each YC company $150,000, beginning with the W11 batch.  The idea was that with more cash in the bank, each founder could concentrate on products and hold off on fundraising. But the joy of that bounty turned into increased anxiety—for YC founders things got real, real fast. (In 2014 YC ended that arrangement and decided to give each startup $120,000 directly.) Y Combinator today. Livingston agrees: “We needed more partners.” YC found those partners in its own network, drawing from its favorite founders whose companies had sold or failed. From that point, batches were broken up into groups, each led by some of those partners. Though founders could request office hours from any partner, they generally took them from the ones heading their group. It became possible to go through the entire three months without speaking to many founders in other groups—sometimes Demo Day provided your first look at what one of your fellow companies was up to. YC also expanded from its original headquarters to a bigger second building, across the street.  Demo Days moved from the headquarters to the roomier Computer History Museum. There was no longer time in a single day for all the two and a half minute presentations, so YC spread them over two days, clustering the companies into categories so investors could limit their attendance to areas they wanted to seed. The biggest change, of course, occurred when Graham left in 2014 and anointed Altman as his successor. “It was Sam becoming available that made me realize that I could retire,” Graham says. To Graham, Altman was the perfect successor—probably because their thinking aligns, particularly in enthusiasm for ideas that most people think are totally nuts. But mostly because he felt Altman would take YC farther. Now, Graham and Livingston have decamped to England for a year abroad with their two children. (Livingston intends to return to YC, but Graham says he doesn’t miss it.) To keep those bigger batches running smoothly, he hired even more partners and operational people. (YC now has 46 full-time employees.) Another aid in maintaining larger batches is a custom software development group led by former Scribd (S06) executive Jared Friedman, which has developed a go-to app that’s a version of Facebook with elements of Quora and a dedicated Wiki. It’s called Bookface. Friedman says that about half of all founders in the YC network check it once a week, and many more get a daily digest of the discussion in their inboxes. Founders with questions can post to Bookface and have an answer from a founder in 24 hours, Friedman tells me. In other words, some random hacker might easily tap a CEO running a unicorn. David Rusenko, CEO of Weebly, a YC company (W07) valued at $455 million at its most recent funding, says he makes it a point to reply. “We had a ton of people to help us out, so it’s paying it forward.” Part of the YC software team’s efforts involve using AI to automate some of its processes. Using a data set of over 100,000 applications that YC has meticulously tracked over the years, the YC software team has built an AI it calls HAL (get it?) to help screen applications. “HAL reads applications and he votes on them, just like humans do,” says Friedman. “And he has saved a great deal of human hours.” Would it ever be possible for YC software to actually dispense advising like partners do—setting goals for founders, nudging them to concentrate on customers, coaching them as they prepare their hockey-stick slides for Demo Day? Friedman’s answer is yes. “In the long run, it will be possible for us to build an AI that does those things better than we do,” he says. “Recruiting all those hard science startups surprised me,” says Graham. The thought had never occurred to him, he says, because “we were so few people [that] we didn’t do anything proactive. We shrank from encouraging people to apply.  It would be more work.” Altman also began including non-profit startups in the batches, giving them $50,000, usually matched by a partner.  In last winter’s batch, he pointedly invited a tech team from the ACLU to enter the program. But don’t think that YC is allergic to making profits—another new division called YC Continuity, led by former Twitter executive Ali Rowghani, which makes later-stage investments, generally to founders who have been through the program. “Sam felt it was mission consistent in terms of  helping innovation,” says Rowghani.  “We’re not looking for the next photo sharing app, but for something that could be a bigger technological leap forward. And we thought there was an economic opportunity for us too.” With all that activity, last year Altman shifted his title to president of what he called the YC Group, and appointed a long-time entrepreneur and program veteran Michael Seibel as CEO, focusing on the Core program. “Sam doesn't get caught up in what the organization is this moment—he's striving to figure out what the organization should be,” Seibel says. “He dares to dream. If you'd have asked us three years ago, we would we have a growth fund, or a research group or a startup school that's serving thousands of founders. You would say no, of course not. It's not that he came up with those ideas, but he's not intimidated about pushing those ideas.” There are thousands of other accelerator programs—some even bigger than YC, spanning multiple continents—but Altman professes to not really understand why Y Combinator has done so much better than the rest. It’s incubated multiple unicorns, while the confirmed number of unicorns from all the other rivals stands at zero. “I expect us to be the market leader, but why such an outsized performance?” he wonders. (David Brown, a partner at Techstars, which runs programs in cities all over the globe, says it is possible that some graduates of his program may be unicorns who prefer to keep their valuations private.)  But from his retreat in the English countryside, Graham says the answer is simple. “If you’re the first at something and you do a really good job, it’s self perpetuating,” he says. “Not only is that a possibility,” says Seibel.  “It's what we're building.” CNMN Collection © 2018 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.