REJECTED Thanks for applying to YC 120. We are sorry to say we narrowly passed on your application to attend this year's event. We think your background is strong and encourage you to go down the company building path. You're clearly talented, and we hope you keep in touch. We know our process isn’t perfect and surely missed great people. This is the first year we are hosting YC 120 and plan to iterate on it in the years to come. We hope you apply to a YC batch and more events in the future. Applying multiple times in no way counts against you. Best of luck, -Y Combinator Seems like there are different responses, my buddy got a different one. Is there data regarding how many YC backed companies were acquired, and around what price they were acquired for? I know there could be outliers (unicorns) , and thus asking for the median. April 16th we find out about interviews. Does anyone know approximately when interviews will take place and when does the batch commence? We are 3 engineers, 2 hustlers building a community of problem solvers.  We have an MVP and need  to raise seed funding to get everyone full time. I’m the founder and I’m full time.  I thought of applying to founder Institute to leverage their network of investors and network with founders. Our startup is already matured, because we have developed the mvp and tested with our fan base. We have 1000 users. But to make money we need to grow our user base to 200 000 then introduce our business. To grow our user base we need to pay for amazon services, HR  and do some marketing. April 16th we find out about interviews. Does anyone know approximately when interviews will take place and when does the batch commence? I realized there’s small mistake in my founder profile, if I update it now will it be updated in my application too? Just submitted my app (before the deadline) and did not get the usual submitted application email. Anyone else had this issue? So we were going through the website of Y Combinator and we came across an Alumni who tried to do something very similar to us. Although, they have shifted into a different market segment after their launch which eliminates them as our competitor. Although they still seem to come back to want to come back to that segment. We have a justification and possible explanation of them switching customers and we have figured out how to tackle the problem. But would Y Combinator want to upset their network with their alumnis? 1.2k Subscribers 1 Online