A zero-day vulnerability is a software security flaw that is known to the software vendor but doesn’t have a patch in place to fix the flaw. It has the potential to be exploited by cybercriminals. In the world of cyber security, vulnerabilities are unintended flaws found in software programs or operating systems. Vulnerabilities can be the result of improper computer or security configurations and programming errors. If left unaddressed, vulnerabilities create security holes that cybercriminals can exploit. Hackers write code to target a specific security weakness. They package it into malware called a zero-day exploit. The malicious software takes advantage of a vulnerability to compromise a computer system or cause an unintended behavior. In most cases, a patch from the software developer can fix this. If you’re an everyday computer user, a vulnerability can pose serious security risks because exploit malware can infect a computer through otherwise harmless web browsing activities, such as viewing a website, opening a compromised message, or playing infected media. The term “zero-day” refers to a newly discovered software vulnerability. Because the developer has just learned of the flaw, it also means an official patch or update to fix the issue hasn’t been released. So, “zero-day” refers to the fact that the developers have “zero days” to fix the problem that has just been exposed — and perhaps already exploited by hackers. Once the vulnerability becomes publicly known, the vendor has to work quickly to fix the issue to protect its users. But the software vendor may fail to release a patch before hackers manage to exploit the security hole. That’s known as a zero-day attack. Zero-day vulnerabilities present serious security risks, leaving you susceptible to zero-day attacks, which can result in potential damage to your computer or personal data. To keep your computer and data safe, it’s smart to take proactive and reactive security measures. Your second line of defense is to be reactive and immediately install new software updates when they become available from the manufacturer to help reduce the risk of malware infection. Software updates allow you to install necessary revisions to the software or operating system. These might include adding new features, removing outdated features, updating drivers, delivering bug fixes, and most important, fixing security holes that have been discovered. Follow this security checklist to be sure you are doing everything you can to help keep your information protected from the security risks associated with zero-day vulnerabilities: Stuxnet — a type of zero-day vulnerability — was one of the earliest digital weapons used. Stuxnet is a highly infectious self-replicating computer worm that disrupted Iranian nuclear plants. The threat took control of computers. It altered the speed of centrifuges in the plants and shut them down. Symantec researchers Eric Chien and Liam O’Murchu analyzed the worm. They discovered that Stuxnet is a well-crafted computer worm that only a national government could create to control large-scale industrial facilities. With a team of cyber security experts, Chien and O’Murchu came up with patches and workarounds to fix the bug. Security threats and malware lurk on Windows PCs, Macs, and Android and iOS devices. If you use more than one device – like most of us do – you need an all-in-one security suite. Meet Norton Security Premium. Enjoy peace of mind on every device you use with Norton Security Premium. Follow us for all the latest news, tips and updates.