Want to watch this again later? But wait, what is a zero day vulnerability? A zero day vulnerability is a hole in the software that you didn't know about but that a hacker has been able to find. Literally, the software development team has zero days to work on a patch because the vulnerability is happening right now. Think of it like leaving the back door of a warehouse open - you've got to find a way to close that door as soon as possible! More and more, software is used to hold a wide range of data of individuals and companies. Companies and individuals trust software suppliers to make sure that the program is as safe and secure as possible. A zero day vulnerability puts all that trust at risk. Every minute that a zero day vulnerability continues is another minute that your client could be subject to data breaches, meaning the possibility of lost income, lost time, and even lawsuits. In short, if your product has a zero day vulnerability, you won't be having a good day. Remember that big cup of coffee I mentioned earlier? That's because the first thing that a software supplier should do when a zero day vulnerability is find a way to stop unauthorized data access. This is often accomplished through a patch that, hopefully, does not take long to write. Think of the patch like a tourniquet on a bleeding limb - it doesn't address the cause, but it does limit the bleeding. Once the data breaches have been stopped, the team should then examine how the hackers got into the system. Being able to retrace their steps means that the software developer may be able to identify other places where the product has weaknesses that could be compromised. This means less of a chance of a zero day vulnerability in the future. No obligation, cancel anytime. Select a subject to preview related courses: As with most things in both business and life, the best approach is to be proactive. Companies that are able to reply quickly to a zero day vulnerability are well respected and find themselves given more opportunities to make money. However, just because a company can respond in a timely manner does not mean that it should make a habit of having a zero day vulnerability emerge. Instead, companies should constantly be testing their systems, using outsiders if possible, to make sure that there are no glaring opportunities for a zero day vulnerability to occur. Did you know… We have over 160 college 						courses that prepare you to earn 						credit by exam that is accepted by over 1,500 colleges and universities. You can test out of the 						first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn 						credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every 							imaginable degree, area of 							study 							and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse an area of study or degree level. Next Lesson ©  copyright 2003-2019 Study.com. 			All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. 			All rights reserved. Your Cart is Empty. Please Choose a Product. - Ashlee P. - Clair S. - Chris F.