Staying on top of the latest in software/hardware security research, vulnerabilities, threats and computer attacks. Larry Dignan is Editor in Chief of ZDNet and Editorial Director of ZDNet's sister site TechRepublic. He was most recently Executive Editor of News and Blogs at ZDNet. Prior to that he was executive news editor at eWeek and news editor at Baseline. He also served as the East Coast news editor and finance editor at CNET News.com. Larry has covered the technology and financial services industry since 1995, publishing articles in WallStreetWeek.com, Inter@ctive Week, The New York Times, and Financial Planning magazine. He's a graduate of the Columbia School of Journalism and the University of Delaware. Charlie Osborne is a cybersecurity journalist and photographer who writes for ZDNet and CNET from London. PGP Key: AF40821B Catalin Cimpanu is a security reporter at ZDNet, where he covers cyber-security, data breaches, hacking, and other related topics. He previously served as security reporter for Bleeping Computer and Softpedia. Catalin is based in Romania. Jennifer Leggio has been in the security industry for 17 years as a marketer, advisor, and writer. Her focus is on security culture, including disclosure, community issues, equality in security, disruptive trends, and even marketing best practices. PGP Key: 3A708289 | She prefers other contact on Twitter via @mediaphyter. New attack vector opens backdoor inside enterprise disk storage arrays and people's NAS devices. Medical records removed from leaky server after more than three weeks. Trick has been used for a few months as part of an active traffic re-distribution campaign. Hackers believed to have made off with nearly $20 million in EOS and Ripple cryptocurrencies. Impacted restaurants include Buca di Beppo, Earl of Sandwich, Planet Hollywood, Chicken Guy!, Mixology, and Tequila Taqueria. Most of the targeted MAC addresses are used by ASUStek, Intel, and AzureWave devices. The zero-day vulnerability was disclosed publicly after TP-Link failed to respond. Toyota Japan says hackers might have stolen details of 3.1 million Toyota and Lexus car owners. The toolkit is aimed at filling a gap in the Windows-based penetration testing space. An electronic system used by a Canadian service and its parent company was compromised. Researchers find new Intel VISA (Visualization of Internal Signals Architecture) debugging technology. Russia has become the de-facto expert in GPS spoofing attacks, which it uses both internally and outside its borders. Office Depot agrees to pay $25 million in damages. Support.com, a partner company, will also pay $10 million. Gustuff also possesses a feature unique among all Android banking trojans. Cisco blacklists curl instead of fixing vulnerable code. No new patches available, meaning devices still vulnerable to attacks. Security Government shutdown: TLS certificates not renewed, many websites are down Security New security flaw impacts 5G, 4G, and 3G telephony protocols Government Russia to disconnect from the internet as part of a planned test Security Researchers discover and abuse new undocumented feature in Intel chipsets Security Popup enlarges at the last second so users click on ads instead of 'Close' button