TL;DR: A Zero Day is both an unpatched software hole previously unknown to the software vendor and the code attackers use to take advantage of said hole. Zero day actually refers to two things—a zero-day vulnerability or a zero-day exploit. Zero-day vulnerability refers to a security hole in software—such as browser software or operating system software—that is yet unknown to the software maker or to antivirus vendors. This means the vulnerability is also not yet publicly known, though it may already be known by attackers who are quietly exploiting it. Because zero day vulnerabilities are unknown to software vendors and to antivirus firms, there is no patch available yet to fix the hole and generally no antivirus signatures to detect the exploit, though sometimes antivirus scanners can still detect a zero day using heuristics (behavior-tracking algorithms that spot suspicious or malicious behavior). Zero-day exploit refers to code that attackers use to take advantage of a zero-day vulnerability. They use the exploit code to slip through the hole in the software and plant a virus, Trojan horse or other malware onto a computer or device. It's similar to a thief slipping through a broken or unlocked window to get into a house. Zero day vulnerabilities and exploit codes are extremely valuable and are used not only by criminal hackers but also by nation-state spies and cyber warriors, like those working for the NSA and the U.S. Cyber Command. Zero day vulnerabilities used to be extremely rare. Out of more than a million pieces of malware security firms discovered and processed each month, only about one or two were zero-day exploit code. These days, however, more zero days are being used and discovered. That's in part due to the emergence of a large market for buying and selling zero-day vulnerabilities and exploits, driven largely by the demand from government intelligence agencies. The zero-day market has three parts. These include the black underground market where criminal hackers trade in exploit code and vulnerability information to break into systems and steal passwords and credit card numbers; the white market, which encompasses the bug bounty programs where researchers and hackers disclose vulnerability information to vendors, in exchange for money, so the holes can be fixed—this market includes security companies that purchase zero-day exploits to use in their penetration-testing products to determine if a customer's system is vulnerable to attack; and the "gray" market, where researchers and companies, some of them military defense contractors, sell zero-day exploits and vulnerability information to militaries, intelligence agencies and law enforcement to use for surveillance and offensive computer operations. Some of the most famous attacks that used zero-day exploits are: Hacker Lexicon is WIRED’s explainer series that seeks to de-mystify the jargon of information security, surveillance and privacy. CNMN Collection © 2018 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.