Data Security By Jeff Petters A zero-day vulnerability is a software bug or exploit that hasn’t been patched. It’s like a hole in the bottom of your shoe that you haven’t noticed yet, but a curly-mustachioed villain has found it and is considering putting rusty nails on your gas pedal. Hackers can use these bugs and exploits to steal your data before you’re able to find and patch the weakness. Vulnerabilities allow attackers to slip past your defenses and into your network, like the unpatched software that allowed the Equifax hack. As security professionals, we regularly deal with all kinds of vulnerabilities like software bugs, hacks, and human vulnerabilities. In short, urgency and immediacy make a zero-day vulnerability. These are software bugs that developers have zero days to fix because by the time they’re identified, they are already massive security risks that could cause significant damage. Most of the time, zero-day bugs are not public knowledge and are patched before attackers can build an exploit kit to take advantage of the flaw. As long as the zero-day vulnerability is not public, developers have time on their side. However, once the exploit becomes public knowledge, it becomes a race for developers to get a patch out before damage is done. A zero-day exploit is different from a zero-day vulnerability. Zero-day exploits do not have to be existing vulnerabilities: they could be a brand new malware of ransomware program. A zero-day exploit is a brand new kind of attack in progress that requires immediate remediation. When a zero-day vulnerability isn’t discovered and patched before the attackers find the flaw, however, it becomes a zero-day exploit as well. Zero-day exploits are difficult to detect and defend against: they are unknown until it’s too late, and their nature is under-researched. Signature-based security solutions can’t detect a zero-day exploit, and there are no software vulnerability patches immediately available. You need to react to zero-day exploits quickly to prevent widespread damage to the network or data theft. For example, a zero-day exploit that grants an attacker access to a user account will likely cause that user account act abnormally. The attacker might try to search the network for credit card numbers or password lists, or try to elevate the account to a Domain Admin. With Varonis, either of those activities will trigger one of several behavior-based threat models and flag it as suspicious activity. So what can you do to protect yourself against zero-day vulnerabilities? That last point is key. Empower the team to report behaviors on their systems that are out of place – employees are often the last line of defense against a zero-day attack. Other notable zero-day attacks: Jeff Petters Jeff has been working on computers since his Dad brought home an IBM PC 8086 with dual disk drives. Researching and writing about data security is his dream job. 1 CPE Credit GPDR Attack Plan Start Now Data Security Data Breach Response Times: Trends and Tips Data Security Browsing Anonymously: Is It Really Anonymous? Data Security Varonis Community Announces ‘Varonis Elite’ Program [Online Conference] Varonis Coffee Series: Unique Insights Into Data Security and Privacy