Free security software just doesn’t have the resources to keep up with new threats as they emerge. That’s why you need a multi-layered defense to security. Meet Norton Security Premium — protection for up to 10 of your devices. The term zero-day refers to an unknown vulnerability or an exploit in a software program that the developer of the software is newly aware of, and has not had the time to address and patch. Zero-days are particularly troublesome because they often present an open window during which cybercriminals can operate unchallenged. Because of this, zero-days are prized by cybercriminals who have knowledge of them and are used for as long and as quietly as possible. The Angler Exploit Kit uses this zero-day vulnerability in Adobe Flash to install malware onto a computers and targets the latest version of Adobe Flash (version 16.0.0.287). Simply visiting a compromised website can install malware onto a machine via the exploit. There is no action needed on the users’ part to become infected. While Adobe is aware of this newly discovered vulnerability, they have not issued a security advisory for it. The exploit has already been used in a drive-by download campaign that attempts to deliver malware to the victim’s computer through malicious advertising (malvertising). The malicious adverts redirected through a series of sites that eventually led to the exploit code. Norton experts say that it’s important that users remain alert to stay protected from this vulnerability, as it targets the current version of Adobe Flash, which is widely used. Symantec considers this a severe incident, as it has the potential to affect a large number of users. Testing performed by Kafeine concludes that the following products are affected: Fully patched versions of Windows 8.1 and the Google Chrome browser do not appear to be affected at this time. Web browser technology can accommodate additional functionality through third party plugins and extensions. Just like any software, these plugins can contain vulnerabilities, which can be exploited. As a best practice we recommend that users reduce their exposure to vulnerabilities by turning off any plugins or extensions, which they do not use on a regular basis. Please note that this is a developing story. We will continue to update this story as our Norton security research teams learn more. Norton Security Premium helps protect up to 10 of your Windows PCs, Macs, Android smartphones or your iPads. Follow us for all the latest news, tips and updates.