Updated: There is no known workaround for the security flaw. Microsoft has quickly reacted to the disclosure of a previously unknown zero-day vulnerability in the Windows operating system. If exploited, the zero-day bug permits local users to obtain system privileges. As ALPC is a local system, the impact is limited, but the public disclosure of a zero-day is still likely a headache for the Redmond giant. There are no known workarounds for the vulnerability, which has been awarded a CVSS score of 6.4 -- 6.8. SandboxEscaper's tweet has since been deleted. However, Microsoft has acknowledged the zero-day flaw. This is likely to take place on September 11, the next scheduled Microsoft Patch Tuesday, unless the firm decides to issue an out-of-schedule patch. Update 16.28 BST: A Microsoft spokesperson told ZDNet: 29.8, 11.29BST: The original tweet sent by SandboxEscaper appears to have been restored. The user also tweeted: An in-depth look into the incident reveals how the 112-year-old bank may have been swindled out of millions. Thousands of spyware users and those being monitored have had their information leaked to the public domain. Exploit of Microsoft's Cortana did not require any external code. Latest preview release showcases Your Phone app for Android users, plus HTTP/2 and CUBIC networking. Opinion: What if the security industry operated under a basic tenet: "First, do no harm?" Tech Industry April Fools' Day roundup: The best and worst tech pranks on the web Security Google security engineer discloses zero-day flaw in TP-Link smart home routers Security FireEye debuts Windows Commando VM as Linux Kali rival Security Data breach exposes diagnosis data of 34,000 medical marijuana patients A 																																																								University 																																																								of 																																																								NSW 																																																								Canberra 																																																								research 																																																								group 																																																								recommends 																																																								forming 																																																								a 																																																								provisional 																																																								National 																																																								Commission 																																																								for 																																																								Cyber 																																																								Civil 																																																								Defence 																																																								to 																																																								help 																																																								defend 																																																								against 																																																								a 																																																								"cyber 																																																								storm" 																																																								that's 																																																								already 																																																								upon 																																																																... Some 																																																								96 																																																								percent 																																																								of 																																																								Singapore 																																																								businesses 																																																								experienced 																																																								a 																																																								security 																																																								breach 																																																								in 																																																								the 																																																								past 																																																								year, 																																																								during 																																																								which 																																																								ransomware 																																																								was 																																																								the 																																																								most 																																																								frequently 																																																								used 																																																								attack 																																																								mode 																																																								followed 																																																								by 																																																								malware 																																																								and 																																																								Google 																																																																... If the legislation is passed, social media platforms may be ordered by government to disable accounts spreading fake news. New attack vector opens backdoor inside enterprise disk storage arrays and people's NAS devices. Medical records removed from leaky server after more than three weeks. Click-fraud apps drove a 100 percent year-over-year increase in the amount of malware installed from Google Play in 2018. The key policy considerations the Facebook founder has called for are around harmful content, election integrity, privacy, and data portability. Our 																																																								digital 																																																								society 																																																								is 																																																								under 																																																								attack 																																																								from 																																																								malevolent 																																																								forces 																																																								creating 																																																								realistic 																																																								looking 																																																								fake 																																																								text, 																																																								images, 																																																								and 																																																								video. 																																																								Can 																																																								real 																																																								artificial 																																																								intelligence 																																																								overcome 																																																								evil 																																																								fake 																																																								news? 																																											... Baidu and Tencent's services will reportedly be blocked in the countdown to the 2020 Taiwan election.