A SPECIAL REPORT FROM THE EDITORS AT CYBERSECURITY VENTURES Q1 2017 ZERO DAY EXPLOITS Bad code and Black Hats will boost zero-day attacks in 2017 Menlo Park, Calif. – Jan. 3, 2017 An ever-increasing amount of new code and a robust underworld economy will be stoking the market in 2017 for zero-day vulnerabilities. Although strides are being made to produce more secure code through the use of automation and better tools, the sheer volume of code being produced is enormous. And it’s only going to grow exponentially to meet the thirst for software for web applications, mobile hardware and devices connected to the Internet of Things. That widespread use of open source code can be problematic from a security standpoint. A block of code can be a component in software written for many kinds of devices so a zero-day flaw found in such a component can be multiplied many times. “You’ll typically see a slew of vulnerabilities come out on all sorts of appliances and platforms,” says Mike Cotton, vice president of research and development at Digital Defense, a provider of information security assessment solutions. What’s more, tools created to allow developers to cope with the demands to get applications to market faster than ever for a diverse number of devices has made discovery of zero-day and other types of vulnerabilities easier for hackers. For example, software can be run on a “virtual” version of a hardware device without the need to buy the device itself. “That shrinks the cost for an attacker to examine and exploit these platforms,” Cotton explains. Discovery of zero-day vulnerabilities in the coming year will also be fueled by market forces. When the demand for a commodity increases in a market, so does its sale value, and that will be the case with zero-day flaws. “There’s a saying in the hacker community that ‘zero day can happen to anybody,’” DARPA CGC Program Manager Mike Walker said at the end of the competition. “What that means is that unknown flaws in software are a universal lock-pick for intruders.” “Tonight we showed that machines can exist that can detect those lock-picks and respond immediately,” he continued. “We have redefined what is possible, and we did it in the course of hours with autonomous systems that we challenged the world to build.” © 2016-2017 Cybersecurity Ventures. All rights reserved. Federal copyright law prohibits unauthorized reproduction of this Report by any means and imposes fines up to $150,000 for violations. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without expressed written permission of Cybersecurity Ventures is prohibited.   All rights reserved Cybersecurity Ventures © 2018 © 2019 Cybersecurity Ventures. All rights reserved. Federal copyright law prohibits unauthorized reproduction of this content by any means and imposes fines up to $150,000 for violations. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without expressed written permission of Cybersecurity Ventures is prohibited. All rights reserved Cybersecurity Ventures © 2019 Send this to a friend