Zero-Day TP-Link SR20 Router Vulnerability Disclosed by Google Dev Microsoft Retaliates Against APT35 Hacker Group by Seizing 99 Domains VMware Fixes Critical Vulnerabilities in ESXi, Workstation and Fusion Toyota Security Breach Exposes Personal Info of 3.1 Million Clients Chromium-Based Microsoft Edge Added to Windows 10 Sandbox Google Fixes Two Critical Android Code Execution Vulnerabilities U.S. Airlines Cancel, Delay Flights Because of Aerodata Outage Notepad++ Adds GPG Signature to Verify Authenticity AuroraDecrypter FilesLockerDecrypter 360 Total Security Skype Classic AdwCleaner ComboFix RKill Junkware Removal Tool Remove the Qbit Clean Pro PUP Remove the Soundrec.exe Miner Trojan Remove the Qbit Optimizer Pro PUP Remove the System Support Alert Tech Support Scam Remove Security Tool and SecurityTool (Uninstall Guide) How to remove Antivirus 2009 (Uninstall Instructions) How to Remove WinFixer / Virtumonde / Msevents / Trojan.vundo How to remove Google Redirects or the TDSS, TDL3, or Alureon rootkit using TDSSKiller Locky Ransomware Information, Help Guide, and FAQ CryptoLocker Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ CryptorBit and HowDecrypt Information Guide and FAQ CryptoDefense and How_Decrypt Ransomware Information Guide and FAQ How to Export a Registry Key in Windows How to Restart the Windows Explorer.exe Process How to Open a Windows Command Prompt How to Clear or Flush the DNS Cache in Windows How to start Windows in Safe Mode How to remove a Trojan, Virus, Worm, or other Malware How to show hidden files in Windows 7 How to see hidden files in Windows eLearning IT Certification Courses Gear + Gadgets Security A Russian vulnerability researcher and exploit developer has published detailed information about a zero-day vulnerability in VirtualBox. His explanations include step-by-step instructions for exploiting the bug. According to the initial details in the disclosure, the issue is present in a shared code base of the virtualization software, available on all supported operating systems. Exploiting the vulnerability allows an attacker to escape the virtual environment of the guest machine and reach the Ring 3 privilege layer, used for running code from most user programs, with the least privileges. Sergey Zelenyuk found that the security bug can be leveraged on virtual machines configured with the Intel PRO/1000 MT Desktop (82540EM) network adapter in Network Address Translation (NAT) mode, the default setup that allows the guest system to access external networks. Zelenyuk says that an important aspect in getting how the vulnerability works is to understand that context descriptors are processed before data descriptors. The researcher describes the mechanics behind the security flaw in detail, showing how to trigger the necessary conditions to obtain a buffer overflow that could be abused to escape the confinements of the virtual operating system. First, he caused an integer underflow condition using packet descriptors - data segments that allow the network adapter to track network packet data in the system memory. This state was then leveraged to read data from the guest OS to into a heap buffer and cause an overflow condition that could lead to overwriting function pointers; or to cause a stack overflow condition. The exploit Zelenyuk wrote relies on the two overflow conditions. Since it provides access to Ring 3 level of permissions, privilege escalation is needed to take control over the host operating system. Although this is not impossible, an attacker has to chain another vulnerability that would grant them increased privileges on the system. The steps described by the researcher for exploiting the zero-day he uncovered in VirtualBox are definitely not script-kiddie-friendly as they require more advanced technical knowledge. Buffer overflows are not always stable and most of the times they result in crashing the target. However, Zelenyuk says that his exploit is "100% reliable," and it "it either works always or never because of mismatched binaries or other, more subtle reasons I didn't account." He tested his work on Ubuntu 16.04 and 18.04, both 86- and 64-bit with the default configuration. Proof of the success is the following video that shows the exploit running in the guest OS and executing a shell on the host OS: At the beginning of today's report, Zelnyuk clearly states the reasons that drove him to publicly announcing the full details for the current zero-day, before informing the developer of the issue. Oracle's past reaction to his reporting seems to have played a part in this. I'm exhausted of the first two, therefore my move is full disclosure. Infosec, please move forward. Zero-Day TP-Link SR20 Router Vulnerability Disclosed by Google Dev Zero-Day WordPress Plugin Vulnerability Used to Add Malicious Redirects Google Fixes Two Critical Android Code Execution Vulnerabilities VMware Fixes Critical Vulnerabilities in ESXi, Workstation and Fusion NVIDIA Patches High Severity GeForce Experience Vulnerability thanks for this post Torrent Malware Goes Down as Pirated Streaming Usage Increases vxCrypter Is the First Ransomware to Delete Duplicate Files Windows Repair (All In One) CCleaner KeyTweak Malwarebytes Anti-Malware AdwCleaner