What is a zero day vulnerability? Essentially, it's an unknown bug in a computer application. Software companies are pretty much constantly working to find and fix problems in their programs, but coding can be a messy business and mistakes often slip through. When a company finds a problem, they release a patch for it -- that's why you're probably pretty used to your operating system or a plug-in asking you to apply updates. But the companies aren't always the first people to discover a problem. And when one of these bugs is discovered in the digital wild, programmers are expected to fix them as soon as possible -- hence the term "zero day" because that's how much time there is to patch the problem before cybercriminals or other adversaries can potentially exploit it. Can you give me an example? So what happens when a hacker discovers a bug? That really depends. White hat, or good guy, hackers are likely to report the issue to the software company so they can fix it -- some software firms offer financial incentives called "bug bounties" to hackers who find problems. However, sometimes when a hacker discloses a vulnerability, he or she ends up being threatened with legal action by the software firm. Of course, if the hacker is a full-fledged cybercriminal, he might just exploit the bug himself  for profit. How (and why) is Google trying to fight this exactly? Basically, the company is trying to recruit an all-star team of security researchers who will work on trying to discover bugs around the web before the bad guys do. In a broad sense, this is good for users and for Google. Consumers will have more people trying to protect them online. Plus if the web is more secure, consumers will be more likely to trust online services -- and by extension, Google services. There's also another potential long-term benefit for Google: Having free range to chase down bugs anywhere online is very attractive to a lot of talented white hat hackers. And if Google can get them in the door, they might end up helping out with internal security or helping develop other Google services down the line.