MITRE Corporation's documentation defines CVE Identifiers (also called "CVE names", "CVE numbers", "CVE-IDs", and "CVEs") as unique, common identifiers for publicly known information-security vulnerabilities in publicly released software packages. Historically, CVE identifiers had a status of "candidate" ("CAN-") and could then be promoted to entries ("CVE-"), however this practice was ended some time ago and all identifiers are now assigned as CVEs. The assignment of a CVE number is not a guarantee that it will become an official CVE entry (e.g. a CVE may be improperly assigned to an issue which is not a security vulnerability, or which duplicates an existing entry). CVEs are for software that has been publicly released; this can include betas and other pre-release versions if they are widely used. Commercial software is included in the "publicly released" category, however custom-built software that is not distributed would generally not be given a CVE. Additionally services (e.g. a Web-based email provider) are not assigned CVEs for vulnerabilities found in the service (e.g. an XSS vulnerability) unless the issue exists in an underlying software product that is publicly distributed. The CVE database contains several fields: This is a standardized text description of the issue(s). One common entry is: This means that the entry number has been reserved by Mitre for an issue or a CNA has reserved the number. So in the case where a CNA requests a block of CVE numbers in advance (e.g. Red Hat currently requests CVEs in blocks of 500), the CVE number will be marked as reserved even though the CVE itself may not be assigned by the CNA for some time. Until the CVE is assigned AND Mitre is made aware of it (i.e., the embargo passes and the issue is made public), AND Mitre has researched the issue and written a description of it, entries will show up as "**RESERVED **". This is a list of URLs and other information (such as vendor advisory numbers) for this issue. This is the date the entry was created. For CVEs assigned directly by Mitre, this is the date Mitre created the CVE entry. For CVEs assigned by CNAs (e.g. Microsoft, Oracle, HP, Red Hat, etc.) this is also the date the entry was create by Mitre, not by the CNA. So in the case where a CNA requests a block of CVE numbers in advance (e.g. Red Hat currently requests CVEs in blocks of 500) the entry date would be when that CVE is assigned to the CNA. The CVE itself may not be used for days, weeks, months or even possibly years (e.g. Red Hat maintains blocks of CVEs for older security issues in open-source software that were not assigned CVEs yet). The following fields were previously used in older CVE records, but are no longer used. The new CVE-ID syntax is variable length and includes: CVE prefix + Year + Arbitrary Digits NOTE: The variable length arbitrary digits will begin at four (4) fixed digits and expand with arbitrary digits only when needed in a calendar year, for example, CVE-YYYY-NNNN and if needed CVE-YYYY-NNNNN, CVE-YYYY-NNNNNN, and so on. This also means there will be no changes needed to previously assigned CVE-IDs, which all include a minimum of 4 digits. CVE identifiers are intended for use with respect to identifying vulnerabilities: Users who have been assigned a CVE identifier for a vulnerability are encouraged to ensure that they place the identifier in any related security reports, web pages, emails, and so on.