Have Watchlists? Log in to see them here or sign up to get started. There are currently no items in this Watchlist. Create a list of the investments you want to track. Something went wrong while loading Watchlist. Visit a quote page and your recently viewed tickers will be displayed here. U.S. sanctions on Venezuela have Gulf Coast refiners scrambling to find new sources for the dense crude oil they need to make fuel, but Canadian producers are finding the opportunity too expensive to exploit. The use of trains to carry crude is surging as drillers in parts of North America produce more oil than pipelines can accommodate. Variant Perception: Some Of Our Most Confident Contrarian Ideas On The Energy Market Today Venezuela is once again finding itself in the dark in another massive power outage, according to Aljazeera, ... Venezuela Crude Exports Hurt By U.S. Sanctions, But No Imminent Collapse Venezuela Crude Exports Hurt By US Sanctions, But No Imminent Collapse What Are Oil Services Stocks Telling Us? The provincial government now intends to relax production caps by increasing the oil output limit by 25K barrels a day (bpd) in May and another 25K bpd in June. Alberta to trim oil production restrictions Cenovus (CVE) reported earnings 30 days ago. What's next for the stock? We take a look at earnings estimates for some clues. Yangarra Resources Forecasts 40% Growth Rate Pipeline delay spooks traders in long-term Canadian crude market - Reuters Canadian Natural's (CNQ) fourth-quarter 2018 results are impacted by crude price differentials, which widens 45% on a year-over-year basis. Drilling in the Permian has plateaued in recent months, but production is still growing. Crucially, ... Enbridge Line 3 delay seen causing more crude by rail, Alberta cuts extended Line 3 Delays: Ultra Bullish For Energy Investors, Not So Much For Enbridge While we expect higher year-over-year output to aid Canadian Natural (CNQ) in the to-be-reported quarter, weak oil price realization may dent the company's margins. Devon Stock Overshooting On U.S. / Canada Divide Fed Minutes In Focus After Powell Pivot (Wall Street Breakfast Podcast) Wall Street Breakfast: 'Powell Pivot' Puts Fed Minutes In Focus Alberta to lease 4,400 rail cars in bid to ease oil glut Cenovus Energy (CVE) saw a big move last session, as its shares jumped nearly 6% on the day, amid huge volumes. TSX Starts off Q2 Running Stocks Served by Favourable China Data Factors of Influence in 2019, Key Indicators and Opportunity within Brixmor Property Group, Cenovus Energy, Belden, Tapestry, Hasbro, and InfraREIT -- New Research Emphasizes Economic Growth Factors of Influence in 2019, Key Indicators and Opportunity within Brixmor Property Group, Cenovus Energy, Belden, Tapestry, Hasbro, and InfraREIT -- New Research Emphasizes Economic Growth What Norway's Decision To Divest Means For U.S. Shale Fractal Systems Announces Signing of a Non-Binding Term Sheet With a Major Producer to Provide Long-Term Supply for the Enhanced JetShear Regional Hub Project Option Trading Strategies on Apple, Cenovus Energy, Facebook, General Electric, and NVIDIA Mining Stocks You Need to Know Cenovus delivers strong operating performance in 2018 Cenovus to hold conference call and webcast on fourth-quarter and year-end 2018 results Market Trends Toward New Normal in BlackBerry, Cenovus Energy, Casa, II-VI, Criteo S.A, and Landec -- Emerging Consolidated Expectations, Analyst Ratings 5 Oil & Gas Stocks on the Rise Enhanced Oil Recovery Market: Performance in Upcoming Years based on Market Share, Size, Supply Volume and Key Regions Oil & Gas Stocks Poised to Rebound Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.