Find industry contacts & talent representation Access in-development titles not available on IMDb Get the latest news from leading industry trades Claim your page and control your brand across IMDb & Amazon From $2.99 (SD) on Prime Video Watch now Related lists from IMDb users Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below. You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin. Nick tries to kill his wife to get her money, but when learning of this, she plans the same for him! Tender romantic comedy about an aspiring musician who arrives in New York in search of fame & fortune. He soon meets a taxi dancer, moves in with her, and before too long a romance develops. Hilarity ensues when a casino manager spends a day at Disneyland with a cute but troublesome little girl. Ferdinand Waldo Demara Jr. is a versatile man who gets his kicks out of impersonating a marine, a monk, a navy surgeon and a prison warden, eventually getting in trouble with the law for it. A street-smart young man from the Chicago slums dreams of cajoling with the rich and powerful, no matter the cost. Cognac, a pampered poodle and popular star on French television, creates marital problems for his pretty owner Giselle when he becomes jealous of her new husband. Tony Curtis plays an Indian (Nicknamed "Chief" by other soldiers) who fights in WWII and helps to raise the flag at Iwo Jima. Boeing Boeing is a great 1960's comedy about a reporter called Bernard Lawrence, played by Tony Curtis, who has three fiancees. They all are air hostesses, one is working for Luftansa, one for Air France and one for British United.Bernard has to keep looking the air schedules very often, that the ladies won't be at Bernard's Paris apartment at the same time.Bernard has a little helper in the house called Bertha (Thelma Ritter), so Bernard's doesn't have to do all the work.But everything starts going wrong when Bernard's reporter buddy Robert Reed ,played by the great Jerry Lewis, comes to stay at Bernard's place.And everything goes even worse when the air schedules change. Bernard's perfect plan starts to fail. It is very funny to watch Bernard and Robert try to hide the ladies from each others.Tony Curtis and Jerry Lewis are great comedy actors and they do a great acting job in this 1965 comedy called Boeing Boeing. Find more things to watch Explore popular action and adventure titles available to stream with Prime Video. Start your free trial Find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet!