The term “countering violent extremism,” or CVE, refers to proactive actions to counter efforts by extremists to recruit, radicalize, and mobilize followers to violence. Fundamentally, CVE actions intend to address the conditions and reduce the factors that most likely contribute to recruitment and radicalization by violent extremists. Where possible, CVE should be incorporated into existing programs related to public safety, resilience, inclusion, and violence prevention. CVE efforts do not include gathering intelligence or performing investigations for the purpose of criminal prosecution. Stakeholders have an expressed or identified role in countering violent extremism and include, but are not limited to: Federal, State, Tribal, and Local governments and law enforcement; communities; non-governmental organizations; academia; educators; social services organizations; mental health providers; and the private sector. The Task Force brings together experts from DHS, DOJ, FBI, NCTC and policy guidance from non-security agencies to coordinate investments in and dissemination of research and analysis, enhance engagement and technical assistance to diverse stakeholders, support the development of innovative intervention models, and cultivate communications and digital strategies. CVE efforts range from large public partnerships to local youth programming to individual intervention. For more information on the United States Government’s strategic framework for CVE, please see the following documents: Empowering Local Partners to Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States Released in 2011, this national strategy guides domestic CVE activities across the federal government. Department of Homeland Security Strategy for Countering Violent Extremism This 2016 strategy guides activities within the Department of Homeland Security. Strategic Implementation Plan for Empowering Local Partners to Prevent Violent Extremism in the United States Updated in 2016, this Strategic Implementation Plan provides guidance on how domestic CVE activities will be implemented across the federal government. This 2016 strategy guides the Department of State and USAID’s CVE activities overseas. Protecting civil rights and civil liberties is paramount in itself and helps to counter violent extremism by safeguarding equal and fair treatment, ensuring nonviolent means to address grievances, and making it more difficult for violent extremists to divide communities. Additionally, Department of Homeland Security, Department of Justice, and Federal Bureau of Investigation civil rights offices may provide advice and consultation about potential privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties concerns. Visit the following links for more information: