NEW YORK, March 27, 2019 -- In new independent research reports released early this morning, Capital Review released its latest key findings for all current investors, traders,. HENDERSON, NV / ACCESSWIRE / March 26, 2019 / Oil & Gas stocks are seeing investor interest rise over the past few months. Below are several that are leading the space. One that just released news is Camber ... The provincial government now intends to relax production caps by increasing the oil output limit by 25K barrels a day (bpd) in May and another 25K bpd in June. Cenovus (CVE) reported earnings 30 days ago. What's next for the stock? We take a look at earnings estimates for some clues. Canadian Natural's (CNQ) fourth-quarter 2018 results are impacted by crude price differentials, which widens 45% on a year-over-year basis. As regulators continue to ease production cuts in Canada, the divide between Canadian oil companies continues as some are asking for new cuts, while others disagree with the OPEC-like measure While we expect higher year-over-year output to aid Canadian Natural (CNQ) in the to-be-reported quarter, weak oil price realization may dent the company's margins. HENDERSON, NV / ACCESSWIRE / February 22, 2019 / Oil and gas stocks have been on fire for several reasons. A couple exploration plays in particular have been seeing increased investor interest. One we ... Cenovus Energy (CVE) saw a big move last session, as its shares jumped nearly 6% on the day, amid huge volumes. Escalated transportation and blending expenses hurt Cenovus Energy's (CVE) bottom line in Q4. Here are 5 stocks added to the Zacks Rank 5 (Strong Sell) List today Cenovus (CVE) delivered earnings and revenue surprises of -543.75% and -8.97%, respectively, for the quarter ended December 2018. Do the numbers hold clues to what lies ahead for the stock? The Calgary, Alberta-based company said it had a loss of 84 cents per share. Losses, adjusted for non-recurring gains, were $1.03 per share. The results did not meet Wall Street expectations. The average ... Oil sands producer Cenovus Energy Inc posted a wider quarterly loss on Wednesday, hurt by lower production and Canadian crude oil prices. Total production fell to 432,713 barrels of oil equivalent per ... Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE.TO) (CVE) delivered strong operating performance in 2018 while demonstrating financial resilience in a challenging and volatile Canadian commodity price environment.  “In the fourth quarter, in some of the most difficult macro-economic conditions we’ve ever faced and while voluntarily managing our oil sands production lower, we remained relatively cash-flow neutral and continued to deleverage our balance sheet.  Overall, Cenovus’s 2018 upstream financial results were significantly impacted by widening light-heavy oil price differentials, which reached historical highs in the fourth quarter, as well as realized hedging losses of $1.6 billion largely in the first three quarters of the year. CALGARY, Alberta, Feb. 06, 2019 -- Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX: CVE) (NYSE: CVE) will release its fourth-quarter and year-end 2018 results on Wednesday, February 13, 2019. The. Cenovus (CVE) doesn't possess the right combination of the two key ingredients for a likely earnings beat in its upcoming report. Get prepared with the key expectations. NEW YORK, Feb. 04, 2019 -- In new independent research reports released early this morning, Capital Review released its latest key findings for all current investors, traders,. HENDERSON, NV / ACCESSWIRE / January 30, 2019 / Here's a few Oil & Gas plays you should have on your radar. The top Oil & Gas play on our list is Camber Energy (CEI) , which spent most of the latter half ... HENDERSON, NV / ACCESSWIRE / January 22, 2019 / Energy stocks have had a rough go of it for the past 2 years. However, there is a good argument to be made that they have been a bit oversold - with oil ... Apart from the capex cut, Crescent Point (CPG) also slashes its dividend payout from 3 cents a month to just a penny every quarter, representing a massive decline of 89%. HENDERSON, NV / ACCESSWIRE / January 3, 2019 / Energy is still one of the most profitable areas of the stock market. As demand for oil continues to trend upward, topping 100 million barrels per day this ... The Zacks Analyst Blog Highlights: Enbridge, TransCanada, Suncor, Imperial and Cenovus The alliance could set global oil prices and spur the U.S. to become more energy independent along with boosting domestic shale businesses.  Yahoo Finance, Julie Hyman, Adam Shapiro, Oliver Pursche, Bruderman Asset Management Chief Market Strategist and Toby Loftin - Hennessy BP Energy Fund Portfolio Manager  discuss.