The Canadian province of Alberta has further relaxed its production cuts, looking to increase the production quota in both May and June Q4 2018 Cenovus Energy Inc Earnings Call Cenovus fell as much as 7.5 percent in Toronto, and Canadian Natural slipped as much as 6.5 percent, the biggest intraday drops in almost three months for both stocks.  By contrast, Suncor Energy Inc. may be a “relative winner” if discounts on Western Canadian Select heavy crude widen again, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Neil Mehta said in a note.  Suncor was down 2 percent to C$44.54 at 1 p.m. in Toronto. Want to participate in a short research study? Help shape the future of investing tools and you could win a $250 gift card! Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSE:CVE), a large-cap worthRead More... The following are the top stories from select Canadian newspapers. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. THE GLOBE AND MAIL ** Quebec's highest court has ordered ... The Calgary, Alberta-based company said it had a loss of 84 cents per share. Losses, adjusted for non-recurring gains, were $1.03 per share. The results did not meet Wall Street expectations. The average ... Oil sands producer Cenovus Energy Inc posted a wider quarterly loss on Wednesday, but said the impact of output cuts will be more than offset by an improvement in Canadian crude prices this year. Prices ... Oil sands producer Cenovus Energy Inc posted a wider quarterly loss on Wednesday, hurt by lower production and Canadian crude oil prices. Total production fell to 432,713 barrels of oil equivalent per ... Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE.TO) (CVE) delivered strong operating performance in 2018 while demonstrating financial resilience in a challenging and volatile Canadian commodity price environment.  “In the fourth quarter, in some of the most difficult macro-economic conditions we’ve ever faced and while voluntarily managing our oil sands production lower, we remained relatively cash-flow neutral and continued to deleverage our balance sheet.  Overall, Cenovus’s 2018 upstream financial results were significantly impacted by widening light-heavy oil price differentials, which reached historical highs in the fourth quarter, as well as realized hedging losses of $1.6 billion largely in the first three quarters of the year. CALGARY, Alberta, Feb. 06, 2019 -- Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX: CVE) (NYSE: CVE) will release its fourth-quarter and year-end 2018 results on Wednesday, February 13, 2019. The. An average of 718,000 barrels of crude a day traversed America’s railways as of October, the latest data available, an 88% increase from a year earlier, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  Much of the recent oil train growth is due to record shipments from Canada, where pipeline expansion projects, including Keystone XL and Trans Mountain, have stalled amid environmental opposition and legal delays.  Crude-by-rail shipments also have ticked up from North Dakota’s Bakken region and the Permian Basin of West Texas and New Mexico, according to energy-monitoring firm Genscape Inc. Canadian National Railway Co  beat analysts' estimates for quarterly profit on Tuesday, as it  transported higher volumes of petroleum crude and Canadian  grain.  In late September, Canadian oil producer Cenovus Energy  decided to ship crude through CN Rail's network from  the final quarter of 2018 as part of a three-year deal.  The Alberta government has said it was looking to buy rail  cars to transport 120,000 bpd of crude oil after congested  pipelines stranded much of Western Canada's expanding crude  output. What's in store for 2019? A look back at what happened in the oil market during 2018 and how energy market moves affected oil and gas stocks. Small-cap and large-cap companies receive a lot of attention from investors, but mid-cap stocks like Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSE:CVE), with a market cap of CA$11b, are often out of the  Read More... As we already know from media reports and hedge fund investor letters, many hedge funds lost money in October, blaming macroeconomic conditions and unpredictable events that hit several sectors, with healthcare among them. Nevertheless, most investors decided to stick to their bullish theses and their long-term focus allows us to profit from the recent declines. […] Canada's Cenovus Energy Inc said  on Tuesday it would cut its capital spending for 2019 by 4  percent amid a broader turnaround plan, but raised its oil sands  production forecast.  The company said it plans to invest between C$1.2 billion  ($901.1 million) and C$1.4 billion in 2019, with the majority of  the budget going to its Foster Creek and Christina Lake oil  sands operations.  Cenovus raised its 2019 oil sands production forecast by 3  percent to a range of 377,000 barrels per day (bpd) to 395,000  bpd as it expects increased activity at its Christina Lake  operations in Alberta. Canada's main stock index gained on  Tuesday in a broad-based rally led by energy stocks, which were  supported by higher oil prices.  ** The energy sector climbed 1.7 percent as crude  prices jumped on the back of strength in global stocks, a  slightly weaker dollar and an unplanned supply outage in OPEC  member Libya.  * At 9:38 a.m. ET (1438 GMT), the Toronto Stock Exchange's  S&P/TSX composite index was up 216.02 points, or 1.47  percent, at 14,944.3. Cenovus plans to invest between $1.2 billion and $1.4 billion in 2019, with the majority of the budget going to sustain base production at its Foster Creek and Christina Lake oil sands operations.  The company also plans to complete construction of the Christina Lake phase G expansion.  The 4% reduction in total planned capital spending, compared with Cenovus’s 2018 forecast, is largely the result of efficiency improvements at the company’s oil sands operations and reduced development plans for the Deep Basin as a result of the current commodity price environment. On November 30–December 7, Gulfport Energy (GPOR) gained the most on our list of upstream energy stocks. However, the SPDR S&P Oil & Gas Exploration & Production ETF (XOP) fell 3.9%—the third–largest decline among the major energy subsector ETFs that we discussed in the previous part.