Cenovus Energy Inc (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) and Husky Energy Inc. (TSX:HSE) have seen their share prices pummeled in recent months. Which stock is a better bargain? If crude oil heads higher from here, you'll regret not buying Baytex Energy Corp (TSX:BTE)(NYSE:BTE), or Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) today. The long-term for the oil sands remains bleak making Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) a stock to avoid. Rest easy and relax this summer while you earn passive money from these three dividend stocks including TELUS Corporation (TSX:T)(NYSE:TU). Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) has been reducing its debt levels significantly, but it's a risky investment only suitable for contrarian investors. If oil falls once again, Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) will be among the worst affected. Oil producers in Canada have jumped on an opportunity to lock in revenues for 2019 and 2020 as average crude futures for those years have soared over 20 percent to their highest levels this year, sources familiar with the deals said.  Brazil's state-run oil giant Petróleo Brasileiro SA was also executing a part of its annual oil hedge last week, dealers and banking sources said.  Canadian oil is priced against U.S. crude futures, and producers use a combination of the benchmark futures and other financial tools to protect against fluctuations in prices. Badger Daylighting Ltd. (TSX:BAD) and Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE) (NYSE:CVE) remain undervalued, making both stocks great additions to your TFSA portfolio. The Canadian province of Alberta has further relaxed its production cuts, looking to increase the production quota in both May and June If oil prices continue to rise, Cenovus Energy Inc (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) could have a big year in 2019. Read this article now if you own Canadian Natural Resources Ltd (TSX:CNQ)(NYSE:CNQ) or Cenovus Energy Inc (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE). Cenovus Energy Inc (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) and these two other stocks are trading well below their book values. Cenovus Energy Inc (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) has put itself into a tough position. This year could unveil its financial weaknesses. Q4 2018 Cenovus Energy Inc Earnings Call While the market is finally rebounding, energy stocks like Pembina Pipeline Corp. (TSX:PPL)(NYSE:PBA) and Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) are steals. Cenovus fell as much as 7.5 percent in Toronto, and Canadian Natural slipped as much as 6.5 percent, the biggest intraday drops in almost three months for both stocks.  By contrast, Suncor Energy Inc. may be a “relative winner” if discounts on Western Canadian Select heavy crude widen again, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analyst Neil Mehta said in a note.  Suncor was down 2 percent to C$44.54 at 1 p.m. in Toronto. Alberta's production cuts are squeezing the margins of U.S. refiners like Valero Energy Corp. (NYSE:VLO) and Phillips 66 (NYSE:PSX). Canada Goose Holdings Inc (TSX:GOOS)(NYSE:GOOS) and these two other stocks have been off to great starts to the year, but will they continue to be good buys? Canada's main oil-producing province of Alberta on Thursday raised the amount of crude that companies can produce in April to 3.66 million barrels per day, an increase of 100,000 bpd from the limit imposed in January.  Late last year congestion on oil export pipelines backed up crude in storage tanks and sent crude prices in the province tumbling to record lows.  The slump prompted the Alberta government to mandate temporary production cuts effective Jan. 1 that took 325,000 bpd out of the market. Despite higher bitumen prices the outlook for Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) is not as positive as it appears. Cenovus Energy Inc (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) has struggled over the past few years amid low oil prices, while this other stock has been soaring. WINNIPEG, Manitoba/NEW YORK (Reuters) - Cenovus Energy is pressing ahead with aggressive plans to transport more crude by rail, contrasting itself with peers who have hit the brakes, as the Canadian oil producer bets that pipeline bottlenecks are likely to return.  Pipeline congestion depressed Canadian oil prices last year, prompting Cenovus and other producers to increase their reliance on rail to move crude to U.S. refineries.  Alberta's provincial government imposed mandatory production cuts in January, an unusual step that succeeded in narrowing the gap - called a differential - between Canadian and U.S. prices. WINNIPEG, Manitoba/NEW YORK, Feb 21 (Reuters) - Cenovus Energy is pressing ahead with aggressive plans to transport more crude by rail, contrasting itself with peers who have hit the brakes, as the Canadian oil producer bets that pipeline bottlenecks are likely to return.  Pipeline congestion depressed Canadian oil prices last year, prompting Cenovus and other producers to increase their reliance on rail to move crude to U.S. refineries.  Alberta's provincial government imposed mandatory production cuts in January, an unusual step that succeeded in narrowing the gap - called a differential - between Canadian and U.S. prices. Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) is up 15% in recent trading. Are more gains on the way? Cenovus Energy Inc. (TSX:CVE)(NYSE:CVE) could be a millionaire-maker in the works. Here's why you should buy the stock if you're seasoned at deep value investing.