DHS S&T OSAI in partnership with the National Institute of Building Sciences developed a set of best practices and a new online tool, Best Practices for Anti-Terrorism Security (BPATS), for building owners to evaluate their operations end-to-end before applying for SAFETY Act protections. The Five Country Research and Development (5RD) Terrorism Prevention Meeting was hosted by the United Kingdom Home Office’s Office for Security and Counter-Terrorism (OSCT), in London, UK, September 10-13, 2018. To counter the continually growing and changing threat of violent extremism, DHS S&T has developed a free and publicly accessible research findings dashboard that hosts more than 1,500 cataloged terrorism prevention and countering violent extremism research documents. Past local terrorism prevention programs did not undergo robust, independent evaluation. To redress this gap, at the request of the DHS Office of Terrorism Prevention Partnerships (OTPP), the Science and Technology Directorate (S&T) was looked upon to collaborate with subject matter experts in the field to study these programs’ effectiveness in delivering information about what does and does not work in the prevention space. Neither international borders nor a single ideology constrains or limits threats posed by terrorism, domestic radicalization, or returning foreign fighters. Accordingly, many countries have invested in research within their local contexts to build the global body of evidence in terrorism prevention. However, this research is often inaccessible to intended end users, many of whom cannot effectively retrieve the research or analyze it for operational needs. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate (S&T), in coordination with the Five Country Research and Development (5RD) Terrorism Prevention Network, identified a need to conduct systematic reviews of prior research and evaluations. The Department of Homeland Security strives every day to help federal agencies, state, local, territorial and tribal governments, and critical infrastructure asset owners and operators raise the baseline of cybersecurity. With the continuous growth of connected systems and rapid technology evolution, cyber vulnerabilities are being discovered in more devices and systems than ever before. The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Science and Technology Directorate (S&T) developed a comprehensive and publicly available literature review and ontology dashboard to organize CVE literature. This new capability streamlines the ability for end users and practitioners to access peer-reviewed and methodologically sound research products to develop an evidence base in the field of terrorism prevention for what works, what doesn’t, and why. DHS S&T developed a comprehensive and publicly available literature review and ontology dashboard to organize CVE literature. This new capability streamlines the ability for end users and practitioners to access peer-reviewed and methodologically sound research products to develop an evidence base in the field of terrorism prevention for what works, what doesn't, and why. This page contains reports and other resources about the Countering Violent Extremism Grant Program. Additional documents will be added as they are completed.