At least 50 firefighters are treating multiple patients at the Nipsey Hussle memorial, the Los Angeles Fire Department told CNN. As of this writing, the shooting suspect, who fled from the scene, remains at large and the attack is being investigated as a homicide. An ode to Nipsey Hussle, the great giver of hip-hop. The killing of rapper Nipsey Hussle on Sunday afternoon was especially heartbreaking because of his journey – from his participation in Los Angeles street ... When rapper Nipsey Hussle — a Grammy-nominated artist from the Los Angeles area — was shot and killed Sunday outside of a clothing store he owned, it had ... WASHINGTON — Tricia Newbold, the Trump administration's latest whistle-blower, did something unexpected only hours after a House committee released her ... A White House whistleblower told lawmakers that more than two dozen denials for security clearances have been overturned during the Trump administration, ... WASHINGTON — A whistle-blower working inside the White House has told a House committee that senior Trump administration officials granted security ... A whistleblower who had worked for both Republican and Democratic administrations, spending a total of 18 years in the White House, told Congress that the ... With a Democratic House majority in place, we see more clearly than ever how Republican docility enabled President Donald Trump's lawlessness for the first ... A man was convicted Monday of killing a woman out running near her New York City home in a case that stirred urban fears, helped change the state's ... Chanel Lewis now faces life in prison for sexually assaulting and murdering Karina Vetrano in 2016. A sadistic sex fiend was found guilty of murder Monday night for sexually assaulting and murdering Queens jogger Karina Vetrano before dumping her body in a ... The man accused of killing jogger Karina Vetrano was found guilty on all charges Thursday night. Chanel Lewis, 21, was convicted of murder and sexual abuse ... A second woman has accused former US Vice-President Joe Biden of inappropriate touching, as the leading Democrat mulls a White House bid. Amy Lappos ... A second woman has come forward to accuse former Vice President Joe Biden of inappropriate touching, further complicating the prospective presidential ... Former Nevada assemblywoman Lucy Flores on Friday accused former Vice President Joe Biden of making her feel "uneasy, gross, and confused" when he ... On Friday, Lucy Flores, a former Democratic candidate for lieutenant governor of Nevada, accused Joe Biden of touching her inappropriately as they waited to ... Isn't he supposed to be the empathetic one? Well it's time for him to show some empathy. It is critical our borders remain open,” El Paso Mayor Dee Margo said. Homeland Security Secretary Kirstjen Nielsen on Monday directed Customs and Border Protection to speed up its planned surge of 750 officers to assist the US ... El Paso, Texas, Mayor Dee Margo (R) said in an interview that aired Monday on "Rising" that a physical barrier along the U.S. southern border is not the "be-all ... Trump is right about one thing — the U.S. immigration system is dysfunctional. But he isn't interested in fixing it. He's exploiting it to push his anti-immigration ... The immigration system at the southern border is failing with the flood of migrants abusing the asylum process. WASHINGTON — Top Democratic presidential candidates Monday called for abolishing the Electoral College, allowing felons to vote, and requiring cabinet ... Feeling increasingly frustrated with the United States Electoral College, a group of Democratic senators are planning to introduce a constitutional amendment ... Democratic Sen. Brian Schatz is set to introduce a constitutional amendment that would abolish the Electoral College in favor of electing presidents by popular ... It is true that it's time we review the way we elect the president. Sen. Brian Schatz, D-Hawaii, and a group of other senators will introduce an amendment Tuesday to abolish the Electoral College, which is becoming a 2020 ... University of South Carolina student Samantha Josephson's death was caused by "multiple sharp force injuries," law enforcement officials said Monday. COLUMBIA, S.C. – Surveillance video shows a University of South Carolina student climbing into the vehicle of the person accused of killing her, believing it was ... Standing before Samantha Josephson's friends and classmates at the University of South Carolina, her father spoke about his daughter's final moments. With a community still in shock, surveillance video showing the moment USC student Samantha Josephson got into her accused killer's vehicle has surfaced ... University of South Carolina student from New Jersey who was found murdered about a day after she was reported missing may have entered the killer's car ... Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh is going on a leave of absence after becoming engulfed in a scandal about a series of children's books she authored. Democratic Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh will be taking an "indefinite leave of absence," her office announced Monday, citing a battle with pneumonia. Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh announced on Monday that she's taking an indefinite leave of absence from office after it was revealed she received $500000 ... Kaiser Permanente says it paid Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh more than $100000 for about 20000 copies of her “Healthy Holly” children's books ... Baltimore Mayor Catherine Pugh announced she is dealing with health challenges and will take an "indefinite leave of absence" at the same time her office is ... Four people were found dead Monday at a North Dakota business in what police are investigating as a multiple homicide. MANDAN, N.D. -- Mandan police say they discovered four bodies inside a property management business southeast of here when authorities were responding ... MANDAN, N.D. (AP) — The Latest on bodies found at a business in the Bismarck, North Dakota, suburb of Mandan (all times local): 5:50 p.m. Police in North ... MANDAN, N.D. (AP) – Police responding to a medical call at a North Dakota business on Monday found “several” bodies, authorities said. The Mandan Police ... The first subpoenas from Democrats to Attorney General William Barr may be authorized Tuesday for documents related to the census citizenship query. Steven Dillingham, the new director of the U.S. Census Bureau, is refusing to step into the controversy surrounding a potential question for the upcoming ... President Trump blasted "radical" Democrats who have pushed back against his administration's bid to include a citizenship question on the 2020 census. President Donald Trump tweeted about the 2020 Census on Monday, saying it would be "meaningless" unless it included a controversial citizenship question. President Donald Trump on Monday lashed out at Democrats for fighting his administration's attempt to add a citizenship question to the 2020 Census, ... LONDON — Britain's Parliament on Monday failed to reach a majority on any one of four new proposals for the country's exit from the European Union, ... Members of Parliament have again rejected all the options placed before them, as they tried to find a compromise that would help end the Brexit impasse. The uncertainty would be huge, but the cost of a no-deal departure still looks too great. While better than no deal, we would still be worse off than if we just remained in the EU, says former EU trade commissioner Peter Mandelson. ISTANBUL — Step by step over the years, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey sought to ensure nobody could challenge him. He marginalized ... The party of Turkey's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan has lost control of the capital, Ankara, in local elections in a setback after 16 years in power. The op... ISTANBUL — President Recep Tayyip Erdogan confronted the prospect of a stunning political defeat on Monday, as local voting in Turkey showed his party had ... This is a watershed moment in Turkish political history. You don't need to understand Turkish to see how Istanbul mayoral candidate Ekrem Imamoglu managed to connect to sceptical supporters of Recep Tayyip ... Japan declared on Monday the name of its new imperial era when Crown Prince Naruhito becomes emperor on May 1. Hundreds of people flocked to get special edition newspapers at a station in central Tokyo, after the name of Japan's new imperial era was announced on ... Japan has announced that the name of its new imperial era, set to begin on 1 May, will be "Reiwa" - signifying order and harmony. The country's current era, ... TOKYO — It's the end of an era, and the new one already has a name. The Japanese government on Monday officially unveiled the name of the imperial era set ... The new era begins on May 1 with the ascension of Crown Prince Naruhito, following the 30-year "Heisei" era of Emperor Akihito. China has announced that all variants of fentanyl will be treated as controlled substances, after Washington urged Beijing to stop fueling the opioid epidemic in ... BEIJING — China announced on Monday that it would ban all variants of the powerful opioid fentanyl, a move that could slow the supply of a drug that in recent ... A year into the tariff war between the U.S. and China, officials are signaling that a hard-negotiated deal to end the standoff is near. President Xi Jinping's top ... WASHINGTON — At the heart of President Trump's negotiations with China is a troubling contradiction: The United States wants to use the trade talks to ... Apple has posted cheaper iPhone pricing on its Chinese website, but that won't be enough to halt the slide in sales. Apple has cut prices for several of its most important products on its official Chinese online store by nearly 6 percent. The price cuts affect products including ... Apple has lowered the prices of various iPhone models in China, including the iPhone X, the iPhone 8, and the iPhone 7. Company cuts prices on many key products. VAT and currency movements likely played a role. When does Greater China return to growth? Stocks got off to a strong start in the second quarter, moving higher on news that manufacturing activity in China rose in March. Domestic economic data were ... Burger King, whose quarter-pound Whopper pushed its competitors a half-century ago to create their own two-fisted hamburgers, now plans to roll out a ... Burger King has a plan to bring in new customers and encourage existing ones to buy more often: Vegetarian Whoppers. The meat substitute manufacturer Impossible Foods and fast food giant Burger King are launching an Impossible Whopper. According to a report in The New ... Burger King is introducing a Whopper made with a vegetarian patty from the start-up Impossible Foods. The deal is a big step toward the mainstream for ... Burger King has become the largest restaurant chain to embrace plant-based meat. See what Impossible Foods had to do to win over the King. No April Fools' jo ... Jim Cramer breaks down how investors can make money from the IPO boom without investing directly in them. The early action in Lyft is reminding folks of a basic lesson when it comes to investing in seemingly can't miss, newly public companies. Socialist politicians have been getting a lot of attention lately but the good news is they haven't been getting much done. Last week a major legislative setback ... Ride-sharing giant Lyft had its IPO last week. Uber and others should follow soon. Investors see big bucks but my advice is don't waste your money. Shares of Lyft sank almost 12 percent Monday, falling below the stock's IPO price in its second day of trading on the public market. The stock ended trading at ... More than a hundred flights were affected by a technical glitch on Monday. Multiple airlines, including Southwest, American and Delta, saw their planes temporarily grounded early Monday morning due to a computer outage in a central ... Delta Airlines and Southwest Airlines both say technology-related issues are affecting their systems. BIG FLATS, N.Y. (WETM) - UPDATE. 8:20 a.m.. Delta Airlines says the problem has been resolved. The 6:00 a.m. flight from Elmira to Detroit that was delayed, ... Several airlines in Louisville and across the country were experiencing system-wide outages Monday, causing anger among travelers. When specific companies announce new phones, like Samsung and Google, we get hit up by loads of case-making accessory companies to check out the latest ... The Galaxy S9 and Galaxy S9+ were disappointing on every level last year, offering users a hardware design that was nearly identical to Samsung's 2017 ... Can the three cameras on the iPhone XS Max compete with the five cameras on the Galaxy S10 Plus? We compared photos, portraits and video from both to ... All three generations of Pixel phones have set new standards for smartphone photography. Historically, the only phone that really outdoes a Pixel's camera is ... Every year, Apple and Samsung engage in an ongoing game of cat-and-mouse as they try and one up each other with their respective flagships. Click-fraud apps drove a 100 percent year-over-year increase in the amount of malware installed from Google Play in 2018. Today, Google released its fifth annual security and privacy report. Despite an overall increase in potentially harmful application (PHA) downloads -- due to the ... It's April Fools' Day, but you won't find any fake news here. Today we'll take a look at the top stories from the weekend, including the demise of AirPower, ... Google said in 2018 it tracked a rise in the number of potentially harmful apps found on Android devices that were either pre-installed or delivered via ... In a new report looking back over 2018, a year in which Google celebrated the 10th anniversary of the launch of the first commercial Android device, the search ... Cloudfare's 1.1.1.1 DNS service will add a VPN to its app for mobile devices. Known as Warp, the feature will gives users of the DNS resolver even more privacy. Cloudflare has announced that it's adding a VPN to its 1.1.1.1 DNS resolver app. The 1.1.1.1 service, which first came to mobile back in November, currently ... Following their tradition of introducing new services on April 1st, Cloudflare is today announcing Warp: a new mobile VPN that promises to protect the users' ... Virtual private networks are useful for shielding or masking internet activity, but they typically slow traffic. Cloudflare says its new VPN can improve speeds. An update to Cloudflare's 1.1.1.1 App adds encryption to all iPhone connections, while also promising faster access for all apps. Call of Duty: Black Ops 4 is introducing a new map for its battle royale mode, Blackout. The map will be available first on PS4 from April 2. The new map will be ... Treyarch has revealed that the long teased Alcatraz prison will be making it's way to Blackout very soon. Taking the form as a separate, close quarters map, ... Call of Duty's battle royale mode Blackout is getting its first new map. Set on Alcatraz, the map will focus on close quarters combat. It'll be released April 2 for ... Blackout is getting a new map, and no, this isn't an April Fool's joke. Call of Duty: Black Ops 4's Blackout battle royale mode is about to get a new map. The second arena in which players will duke it out for supremacy is Alcatraz. Ariana Grande and Victoria Monét sing about liking women and men in their “Monopoly” video with a strong meme aesthetic. After days of teasing her new song and clapping back at people who said she's not releasing her new music fast enough, Ariana Grande dropped her new song ... On Monday (April 1) evening, Ariana Grande and Victoria Monét proved that they weren't making an April Fools joke with the release of their brand new bop ... Mick Jagger will undergo heart surgery in New York City this week, sources told The Post — as his permanently pickled bandmate Keith Richards continues his ... Game of Thrones actress Sophie Turner revealed that co-star Kit Harington (Jon Snow) gets paid more than she does on the hit fantasy show. Turner says she ... Sophie Turner has been an outspoken advocate for the #MeToo movement and pay equity for women. Actor Sophie Turner recently revealed that her “Game of Thrones” co-star Kit Harington makes more money than her ― and she's OK with that. “Kit [Harington ... As Game of Thrones fans are gearing up for the premiere of the final season, which is just a couple of weeks away, it's only fitting that we get the inside scoop on ... Is Kylie Jenner and Jordyn Woods' friendship on the mend? It's not quite clear but Woods' mother, Elizabeth Woods, is showing the makeup mogul some support ... Khloe Kardashian called her relationship with Tristan Thompson "great" during the premiere of Keeping Up with the Kardashians—find out more about the sad ... Kylie Jenner breaks her silence on the Jordyn Woods scandal. She admits she's not quite a 'self made' billionaire. Plus - Kourtney Kardashian is slammed for ... Jada Pinkett Smith appears to be standing by Jordyn Woods' side amid the model's ongoing fallout with the Kardashians. The reality star explained the incident everyone thought was vengeful. The Yankees have placed OF Giancarlo Stanton on the 10-day IL with a left biceps strain and recalled OF Clint Frazier from Scranton/Wilkes-Barre. The Yankees are doing their best imitation of the Mets early this season. The Bombers lost two key players Monday when they placed outfielder Giancarlo ... The Yankees have placed OF Giancarlo Stanton on the 10-day IL with a left biceps strain and recalled OF Clint Frazier from Scranton Wilkes-Barre. Michigan State coach Tom Izzo laughs while celebrates with assistant coach Dwayne Stephens after they defeated Duke, 68-67, in their Elite 8 game at Capital ... The 2019 Final Four is set: Auburn, Michigan State, Texas Tech and Virginia. By this point, we all know how each team got to the Final Four. But what about ... My University of Virginia Cavaliers are heading to the Final Four, one year after making NCAA tournament history by losing to a 16 seed. The once chalk-heavy 2019 NCAA men's basketball tournament took a 90-degree turn on Friday night, with several Sweet 16 and Elite Eight upsets giving us a ... The final four is officially underway, and one team is the odds-on favorite to cut down the nets in Minnesota. According to betonline.ag, Virginia has the best odds ... Zion Williamson hasn't even declared for the NBA draft yet, and he could still soon join a roster of All-Stars. After a historic season at Duke for Zion Williamson , the NBA awaits—specifically tanking franchises hoping to win the lottery and add a (super)star... Stephen A. Smith, Max Kellerman and Jay Williams assess the level of disappointment for the Duke Blue Devils after losing to the Michigan State Spartans in t... LeBron. Serena. Zion. Duke's fabulous freshman — already known across sports by just his first name — became an NBA star with Duke's loss. MIAMI — A break and a bomb from the big kid made the difference for the Mets on Monday night. Pete Alonso hit a three-run home run to right-center field in... Amed Rosario hit a go-ahead RBI single and Pete Alonso broke the game open with a three-run home run in the top of the ninth inning as the Mets beat the ... MIAMI -- What's the recipe to celebrate one's first Major League homer? In the case of Mets first baseman Pete Alonso, add a couple of eggs, BBQ sauce, ... The Miami Marlins were tied at three in the ninth inning when the umpiring crew made a terrible call then refused to reverse it. The rest is history. The New York Mets (3-1) have defeated the Miami Marlins (2-3) by a score of 7-3 tonight at Marlins Park (Box Score). It was a battle of the lefties as Steven. The mighty genome editor CRISPR isn't so powerful in lizards and snakes: Never before has it been used to edit the embryos of these reptiles. Now, researchers ... The American Meteor Society says more than 150 reports were recorded in Alabama, Georgia, Kentucky, North Carolina, South Carolina and Tennessee. The National Weather Service (NWS) confirmed a meteor lit up the night sky across Florida and Georgia on Saturday. Videos show the meteor fireballing as it fell ... Floridians were treated to a bizarre sight over the weekend when a bright fireball suddenly appeared streaking across the evening sky. The American Meteor ... Near Tallahassee, Florida (CBS Newspath) -- A large green meteor was spotted blazing through the night sky in northern Florida Saturday night, and several ... People across northern Florida were baffled shortly before midnight Saturday by a greenish-blue fireball that seemed to plummet from the sky. "Caught some ... NASA has announced three finalists in an ongoing design competition tasking engineers to dream up sustainable dwellings that can be 3-D printed on Mars. NASA has taken another step to make interplanetary living a reality, naming the top three finalists for its ongoing 3D-Printed Habitat Challenge last Thursday. NASA has provided further updates in its mission to bring 3D printed construction to Mars with an announcement of the latest results in its 3D Printed Habitat ... NASA announced the top three finalists for its ongoing 3D-Printed Habitat Challenge, a competition that focuses on developing space-friendly homes for Mars, ... NASA has revealed the three finalists in its 3D printed habitat challenge, the project to develop a printable home for astronauts on the Moon, on Mars, or even. BOWMAN, N.D. — Robert DePalma was heading to a known fossil bed when he got a tip that persuaded him to take a detour to a cattle ranch near this ... An international team of scientists has discovered a fossil graveyard containing what it describes as "extraordinary evidence" that an asteroid that hit the Earth 65 ... Scientists have discovered a massive trove of fossils in North Dakota that appear to be from 66 million years ago when a giant meteor crashed into Earth off the ... Robert DePalma, a University of Kansas graduate student, found fossils revealing the impact of a giant asteroid that hit Earth 66 million years ago, wiping out ... It's the first known graveyard associated with the apocaylptic event, called the K-T boundary. CNBC's Sharon Epperson 's life came face-to-face with her own vulnerability after surviving a brain aneurysm. Now she's using her experience to raise ... The number of people sickened by measles in the first three months of this year is more than for all of 2018 — and the second-highest number reported since ... Measles continues to spread across the U.S., with outbreaks in four states infecting more people in the first three months of 2019 than in all of last year, ... Most people who get measles have not been vaccinated. A total of 387 individual cases of measles have been confirmed in 15 states from January 1 to March 28, 2019. This is the second greatest number of cases ... This low-impact exercise steps up health, and for minimal cost. A new study says adults with lower-extremity joint symptoms who get at least one hour of moderate to vigorous exercise every week are more likely to be free of ... We know that regularly getting some exercise, no matter how little, can keep you alive longer. But new research out Monday suggests that even an hour's worth ... Just an hour a week of brisk walking can stave off disability in older adults with arthritis pain, joint aches or stiffness. That's less than ten minutes a day — an ... A relatively small amount of physical activity reduces the risk of arthritis-related disability in middle-aged and older adults, according to a study published online ... But doctors say that comparison oversimplifies how the disease actually works.