String methods help you to work with strings. Primitive values, like "John Doe", cannot have properties  or methods (because they are not objects). But with JavaScript, methods and properties are also available to  primitive values, because JavaScript treats primitive values  as objects when executing methods and properties. Both methods accept a second parameter as the starting position for the  search: They accept the same arguments (parameters), and return the same value? You will learn more about  regular expressions in a later chapter. There are 3 methods for extracting a part of a string: The method takes 2 parameters: the start position, and the end position (end  not included). This example slices out a portion of a string from position 7 to position 12 (13-1): The result of res will be: Remember: JavaScript counts positions from zero. First position is 0. If a parameter is negative, the position is counted from the  end of the string. This example slices out a portion of a string from position -12 to position  -6: The result of res will be: If you omit the second parameter, the method will slice out the rest of the string: or, counting from the end: Negative positions do not work in Internet Explorer 8 and earlier. The result of res will be: The result of res will be: If the first parameter is negative, the position counts from the end of the  string. The result of res will be: Note that regular expressions are written without quotes. There are 3 methods for extracting string characters: The method returns a UTF-16 code (an integer between 0 and 65535). ECMAScript 5 (2009) allows property access [ ] on strings: If you want to work with a string as an array, you can convert it to an array. If the separator is omitted, the returned array will contain the whole string  in index [0]. If the separator is "", the returned array will be an array of single  characters: The reference contains descriptions and examples of all string properties and methods. Start the Exercise Your message has been sent to W3Schools.