On this page I explain what strings are and then give an overview of some useful thingsyou can do with them. Strings are simply groups of characters, like 'JavaScript', 'Hello world!', 'http://www.quirksmode.org' or even '14'. When you write JavaScripts, you need to know what strings are and how they work. You'll use them a lot, since mostthings you can read out (the URL of a page, a style sheet declaration, the value of a form field) are strings. Let's review the basics of strings. When you declare and manipulate strings in JavaScript, always write them with single quotes ' or double quotes "around them. This tells the browser that it's dealing with a string. Don't mix up your quotes, if you start a stringwith a single quote and end it with a double quote, JavaScript doesn't understand what you mean. As a rule,I use single quotes ' because I've decided to use double quotes for HTML and single quotes for JavaScript.You can of course do this the other way around, but I advise you to make some such rule for yourself. Let's introduce our two test strings that we'll use throughout this page: Note that you can put double quotes in the string without escaping them. After all, you've defined the single quotesas the beginning and end of the string, so gives no problems. The double quotes are automatically treated as parts of the string, not as commands. JavaScript is very relaxed about the difference between strings and numbers. Some programming languagesrequire you to state if a variable is a number or a string before doing anything else with it. Not so in JavaScript.In fact you can even add up numbers and strings: Finally, JavaScript makes no reliable difference between integers and floating point variables. To convert a number to a string, do: If you want to change a string to a number, first make sure there are only the characters 0-9 in the string. WhatI always do is simply multiplying the string by 1. First of all, you can concatenate strings, sew them together as it were: gives But of course you want a space between the two sentences. No problem. By doing You can even use numbers or calculations, like: Watch out if you want to add numbers. This Use brackets if you want to add 3 and 3 before making the string. Furthermore it's possible to search for a character only after a certain index number. For instance, if you'd do you get the index number of the first 'o' coming after the character with index 5 (= the space), so it wouldgive 7. gives 'a', because that's the character at the sixth position (remember, first character is 0!). gives 25. Note that the length is 1 more than the index number of the last character. You can also do This gives the whole string from the character with index 4 on: 'o world!'. starts at the character with index 4 ('o') and then gives 8 characters, so the output is gives 'I AM A JAVASCRIPT HACKER.'. Valid XHTML 1.0