Some of the world's biggest porn sites are about to go dark in the UK. The government is going to introduce new a law that will require sites, like PornHub, to introduce effective age verification blocks, making sure people under the age of 18 cannot access them. The regulation has been backed by Britain's largest children's charity the NSPCC, but has also sharply criticised for being poorly-thought-out and potentially damaging to privacy and freedom of speech. "It would appear the government thought this was a cost-neutral freebie that they could get away with very easily without realising the potential impact it would have on privacy and data security," said Myles Jackman, a UK obscenity lawyer. A spokesman for the Department for Digital, Culture, Media, and Sport (DCMS) told Business Insider: "Introducing age verification is a world-leading step forward to protect children. Adult content is currently too easy to access on the internet, we're making sure the protections that exist for children offline are provided online too." Here's everything you need to know about Britain's porn block. The government itself won't be implementing any age verification tech, instead, a technical solution to ban under-18s from accessing porn has been proposed by a firm called MindGeek. AgeID gave Business Insider a few details about how its system will work. A spokesman said that once a user has created an AgeID account, they will have various options for verifying their age via a third-party provider. Options include verifying their age via SMS, credit card, passport, or driving licence. An alternative is colloquially known as the "porn pass," and will be implemented by a company called Portes, which partnered with AgeID. People will be able go down to a convenience store and buy a "PortesCard." Whoever's behind the till will be able to carry out "anonymous face-to-face age verification," i.e. looking at the person's physical ID. The cards will cost £4.99 (roughly $6.50) for use on a single device, or £8.99 (roughly $11.80) for use across multiple devices. Once they've bought the card, a user gets a unique "validation code" which they then have to activate via bespoke app within 24 hours of purchasing the card. Once they've been verified on the app, they get access to sites using AgeID. "It's neither accurate nor desirable in terms of giving away all of your private details to a third-party provider," added Jackman, the obscenity lawyer. He also fears that leaked information could be used to blackmail people, pointing to current "sextortion" scam emails which claim — largely falsely — that they have evidence someone's porn habits and demand bitcoin in return. On a more quotidian level, Killock is also discomfited by a private company like MindGeek possessing personal user data, as it would be in its commercial interest to monetize it. "There's literally no way you can trust a private company on privacy," he said. MindGeek's AgeID was not immediately available for comment when contacted by Business Insider. People may be able to circumvent it using a VPN or Tor, which can trick a site into believing the user is accessing it from a country other than the UK. Teenagers are well aware of such tools and have them installed on their phone. Jackman believes that the block will inevitably drive people towards these technologies. "It's arguably an own-goal from a government perspective," Jackman said. "It's unlikely that children stumble on major porn sites, they're more likely to stumble on an image on Google search or stumble on a pornographic advert on some slightly dodgy torrent site," he said. Critics of the porn block also fear that handing over market dominance to a porn conglomerate like MindGeek has the potential to start a domino effect, disadvantaging marginalised groups and therefore impacting freedom of expression in porn online. Killock agreed that MindGeek could end up being a major beneficiary of the policy. "It is paradoxical that the government are effectively giving the world's biggest porn company the opportunity to dominate the online market in age verification," he said. Another knock-on effect could be an increased strain on sex workers. Individual sites maintained by British sex workers could fall under the remit of the new laws, as they contain adult content for "commercial gain." Sex workers who advertise their services on personal websites would then have to either buy MindGeek's software, or build their own age verification systems. "When sex work is online it's not on the streets, and it also means sex workers can work for themselves and not for a third party like a pimp or a madam," Lister said. She added that working online also allows sex workers to screen clients more carefully. "It is really scary if you're a sex worker online because online is how you screen your clients, it's how you get your business, it's how you promote your brand, it's how you stay safe," Lister explained. It's not at all clear when the porn block might become reality. Some outlets have reported that the block will now come into effect on April 1, 2019. The DCMS has not given that as a date, but has said it will be announcing a date soon. Lister said that for the sex workers, waiting to see whether the block will affect their business, the uncertainty is like waiting for the axe to fall, especially since they're not entirely clear on what content might get swept into the block. "It's all quite vague. I suppose it has to be, because if they just say 'anyone with any adult content' then the internet will come screeching to a halt," she said. "We just don't know how it's going to work... it's a bit like Brexit I suppose, in a mad way."