Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Advertisement Pushing HIV-positive performers either out of the industry entirely, or else excluding them from standardized testing, sits uneasily with some. In the middle of the HIV panel, as the conversation around performers who are undetectable heated up, someone handed a mic to Eric Paul Leue, executive director of FSC, who stood in the back of the room. “As an industry, by excluding people living with HIV from being allowed to have standardized testing protocol, and by shunning and shaming them, we create a social environment that disrupts our community,” he argued, and acknowledged that FSC was working toward a “secondary testing protocol” to address the issue. Advertisement Additional testing systems could also address webcam and amateur performers, who comprise a growing demographic in an industry that has moved away from the studio system, and who can find the two-week $150 PASS test prohibitively expensive. “We want to be able to protect as many performers as possible, no matter where they shoot or what they do,” said Leue. Typically, performers pay for their own PASS testing. Advertisement Advertisement Evans also worries that it might be possible for an undetectable performer who stops taking their antiretroviral medication to go from undetectable to detectable, and therefore transmittable, within a testing window (although a between-tests window for this theoretical testing system has not been defined). Demetre Daskalakis, an infectious disease physician and the deputy health commissioner for disease control in New York City, says that a viral rebound generally takes two to four weeks. “Most humans who stop their medicine on the day of their test would probably just start [virally] revving up around that second week,” he said. The PASS system currently mandates testing every two weeks. Carl Dieffenbach, director of the division of AIDS at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, a division of the National Institutes of Health, puts it like so: “Somebody would literally have to stop taking their pills three or four days prior to the test, test, and then actively try to transmit within the window,” he said. “But no self-respecting person who has gone through the trouble of suppressing is going to want to go back to being viremic. The amount of harm that they do to their body every time you go through periods of viremia is profound.” Advertisement Daskalakis does note that science backing up the concept of “undetectable equals untransmittable” is based on research subjects who have been virally suppressed for six months. “If you follow that notion, then you probably want to say if someone is newly diagnosed with HIV they need to be undetectable for six months prior to being able to enter that pool,” he said. Advertisement So, it is possible for someone who is HIV-positive and undetectable to have a non-reactive Aptima RNA test, according to several HIV experts who spoke with Jezebel. “Yep, absolutely,” is how Daskalakis put it. But, again, someone who is undetectable poses “effectively no risk” of transmission. Since 2017, Evans has called for FSC to mandate an additional antibody test, which can detect HIV regardless of viral load, but which has a greater window from transmission to detection. Leue emphasizes that the PASS system “was originally designed to exclude anyone who was HIV-positive, regardless of ability to transmit.” In an email to Jezebel, he underscored that participation in the system requires “a statement affirming that you have never tested positive.” It is technically possible for someone who is undetectable to have worked within the PASS system, but only if they had a vanishingly low viral load and were willing to falsely claim that they have never tested positive. Advertisement Advertisement Ultimately, this means that in order to shoot with HIV-positive and undetectable performers, he has to do so without the safety measure of any kind of standardized STI testing. “It’s fucked up, because I’m like, ‘I hope one of you guys isn’t giving the other one gono,’” he said. “It’s not cool. It’s ultimately their choice, but I don’t feel great about that.” That’s one of the reasons that he feels an addition to the PASS system is necessary. “We need this so bad,” he said. “It absolutely has to happen. We just need a system to keep us safe.” Advertisement For these reasons, the Adult Performer Advocacy Committee (APAC), a non-profit centered around protecting performers’ rights, and which is unrelated to APAG, is in theoretical support of the concept of adding a parallel testing system to PASS. “At this time, a lot of gay sets are operating using no tests or printed out tests from their separate doctors, because they’re not eligible for the PASS system if they’ve ever tested HIV positive,” said Riley Reyes, president of APAC. “We would love to see a testing system available to help make our gay performers safer.” Hart has worked as a “crossover” performer for over a decade and says he has seen the norm within gay porn shift from condom-only to condom-less. “I don’t even shoot condom stuff anymore. It’s not gonna sell,” he said. “That’s how much it’s changed.” Now he demands a PASS test from all co-stars. “Gonorrhea, syphilis, and hep c are huge concerns for me,” he said. “I don’t want that. Within a day I’m gonna give it to my wife and then she’s fucked.” Part of his concern is that his wife, porn performer Charlotte Sartre, would lose work if she contracted an STI. “The people who say, ‘We can’t have this,’ I’d be curious to hear how it actually affects them,” he said. “I don’t get it. Why would you not want this?” He suggested that those performers simply not opt-in. Advertisement Similarly, Wolf Hudson, who has worked as a crossover performer for 12 years, says, “I don’t think anybody should dictate how anybody performs. So if someone who is negative doesn’t want to perform with an HIV-positive performer, that’s their prerogative and I’m not passing judgment.” But Hudson, who says he is comfortable performing with co-stars who are HIV positive and undetectable, adds, “I would personally hope that they come to that conclusion based on facts. If they understood the facts, that fear would not be there. A lot of it just comes straight from stigma.” In fact, despite his enthusiasm about expanding the testing system, Hart questions whether he’ll be able to opt into such a testing pool himself, because he fears that anyone who does will be stigmatized as posing an added risk within the industry. In other words, it could damage his ability to continue performing in straight porn. As it is, Hart says he’s already been blacklisted four times by major talent agencies as a result of his doing crossover work. The conversation around a separate testing system for undetectable performers may be controversial within the adult industry, but leading HIV researchers and experts are excited by the idea. Advertisement “Why wouldn’t we encourage the industry to do this?” asks Carl Dieffenbach of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. “If you think about this, this is a really good message that people can pursue their livelihood even though they’re HIV-positive because the industry has listened to the science.” Advertisement But Richman, creator of a recent “undetectable equals untransmittable” social media campaign, notes that the barrier to acceptance is significant. “Culturally, we’re up against over 35 years of fear of HIV and people living with HIV, and people are resistant to change.” Correction: An earlier version of this story stated that Lance Hart’s wife was named Charlotte Cross. Her name is Charlotte Sartre. Jezebel regrets the error. Senior Staff Writer, Jezebel