Have an existing account? Already have a subscription? Don't have an account? Get the news Let friends in your social network know what you are reading about The Battle Creek man at the center of a child rape and pornography ring was sentenced Monday to at least 50 years in prison. A link has been sent to your friend's email address. A link has been posted to your Facebook feed. The Battle Creek man at the center of a child rape and pornography ring was sentenced Monday to at least 50 years in prison. "The description that was listed here and what got your arousal was one of the most disturbing things I have ever read in 31 years I have been working in the criminal justice system as a prosecutor and a judge and a member of the parole board," Calhoun County Circuit Judge John Hallacy told Matthew Toole before sentencing him consecutive 25- to 70-year terms in prison. Toole has been in jail 221 days. "It was absolutely disgusting and disgusting is an inadequate word." Toole, who turned 33 on Sunday, pleaded no contest in January to two counts of first-degree criminal sexual conduct. Toole and his girlfriend, Talia Furman, 33, of Springfield, were arrested in August on multiple charges including multiple rapes of a girl 3-months old and a boy 3 years old between Oct. 1, 2017 and May 10, 2018. Both were part of a group involved in a child pornography ring and charged with raping children, some of them their own. Several others have been implicated in making and exchanging child pornography and of sexual assault of children. Toole and Furman also are among defendants charged in Branch County with a conspiracy to abduct, rape and torture a young child, a plot investigators said was not carried out. Those cases are pending. Furman entered a plea earlier this month to a single count of first-degree criminal sexual conduct and will be sentenced to a mandatory minimum sentence of 25 years in prison when she appears again before Hallacy on April 29. "Children are a gift," Hallacy told Toole, referring to victims of the pornography ring. "Our ability to procreate and bring children into this world is a gift that is taken too callously this day by a lot in society and that includes you. "You are suppose to be the light that guides them through their lives, through their trials and tribulations and especially when they are young you are suppose to be their guardian from all the world throws at them, to protect them and not to be their sex toy to play with and get your jollies from." Investigators from the Michigan State Police Computer Crimes Unit have alleged that the pair not only raped the children at a home on Wellworth Avenue in Springfield and at a campground in Marcellus but also made videos of the assaults. Charges against Toole involved oral sex and intercourse with the infant girl. Defense attorney Melissa Heffner asked Hallacy to make the sentences concurrent, meaning they would be served at the same time. "He has no prior criminal history," she said. "He was working and he has served in the Army. I ask that you take those into consideration." But Assistant Prosecutor Tamara Towns said, "this child should have been in a state where (he) was protecting her but instead he victimizes her and allowed others to victimize her and he videotaped it." Toole told the judge he had nothing to say. Hallacy said he had the option of sentencing Toole concurrent terms but chose to order them served consecutively. "I can't think of any other case or any other person whose behavior deserves this more than you," Hallacy told Toole. Contact Trace Christenson at 269-966-0685 or tchrist@battlecreekenquirer.com. Follow him on Twitter: @TSChristenson  