Find industry contacts & talent representation Access in-development titles not available on IMDb Get the latest news from leading industry trades Claim your page and control your brand across IMDb & Amazon From $2.99 (SD) on Prime Video Watch now Related lists from IMDb editors Related lists from IMDb users Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below. You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin. Darius Stone, a new agent in the xXx program, is sent to Washington, D.C. to stop a coup attempt against the President of the United States. Xander Cage is left for dead after an incident, though he secretly returns to action for a new, tough assignment with his handler Augustus Gibbons. The wanted criminal Riddick arrives on a planet called Helion Prime, and finds himself up against an invading empire called the Necromongers, an army that plans to convert or kill all humans in the universe. Left for dead on a sun-scorched planet, Riddick finds himself up against an alien race of predators. Activating an emergency beacon alerts two ships: one carrying a new breed of mercenary, the other captained by a man from Riddick's past. A commercial transport ship and its crew are marooned on a planet full of bloodthirsty creatures that only come out to feast at night. But then, they learn that a month-long eclipse is about to occur. Veteran-turned-mercenary Toorop takes the high-risk job of escorting a woman from Russia to America. Little does he know that she is host to an organism that a cult wants to harvest in order to produce a genetically modified Messiah. Los Angeles police officer Brian O'Connor must decide where his loyalty really lies when he becomes enamored with the street racing world he has been sent undercover to destroy. The mummified body of Imhotep is shipped to a museum in London, where he once again wakes and begins his campaign of rage and terror. An imprisoned drug kingpin offers a huge cash reward to anyone that can break him out of police custody, and only the L.A.P.D.'s Special Weapons and Tactics team can prevent it. Brian O'Conner, back working for the FBI in Los Angeles, teams up with Dominic Toretto to bring down a heroin importer by infiltrating his operation. The last witch hunter is all that stands between humanity and the combined forces of the most horrifying witches in history. Dominic Toretto and his crew of street racers plan a massive heist to buy their freedom while in the sights of a powerful Brazilian drug lord and a dangerous federal agent. I would not dare to insult anyone's intelligence. With that said let me add, this movie will not insult yours, if you see it with the right attitude. Adrenaline pump set for full tilt boogie. This is not an intellectual movie, it is not a love story, and it certainly is not Rambo. What it is, is a series of action shorts connected by a common thread that is very much in vogue. Good guys vs. bad guys/terrorists and in so doing, overcome insurmountable odds to, 1. Do the " right thing " 2. Save the day, 3.Have a hell of a time doing it and 4. GET THE GIRL! If, you expect anymore than that, you will be disappointed. So, turn off you brain and enjoy the ride. If you enjoy extreme sports, action genre movies and bad guys with eastern european accents, sign up get ready to party. This is your movie! Oh, btw. Make sure you see this movie in a theatre that has GREAT sound. You will be rewarded. Find more things to watch Explore popular action and adventure titles available to stream with Prime Video. Start your free trial Find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet!