Us Captain Marvel Widows The Walking Dead OR Please enter your email address and we will email you a new password. Please reference “Error Code 2121” when contacting customer service. If Dubya and Dick Cheney had made their very own post-9/11 patriotic propaganda movie for the teens they need as globalisation fodder, then this would be it. Geoff Andrew Vin may not yet be a Bond, or a Terminator, or even Conan the Barbarian. But he's got presence and charisma. Peter Bradshaw The director piles on one expensive but impersonal action scene after another. Mike Clark Now I know what XXX stands for:Xtremely Xcruciating Xperience. Bill Muller Cohen ... loads the film with pow. Peter Travers [U]nrelentingly stupid. Richard Roeper Fun but deeply, ridiculously silly. Film4 Staff Vin Diesel, every teen's fantasy action hero. Nell Minow Despite the blatant rips, XXX's storyline remains entertaining enough. Guylaine Cadorette As an action director, Mr. Cohen is competent, but this film -- which is pretty much as non-stop as an action movie can get -- needed a director with a little more finesse. Joe Lozito Okay, that's it. My summer of movies has been completely pissed on. Eric Campos Not since the days when Joel Silver ruled Hollywood and musclebound subliterates vied for supremacy on the big screen has the industry spawned a phenomenon as garish and confounding as Vin Diesel. Rick Kisonak This is surely the easiest film to make fun of, in the Vin Diesel canon. It was the first starring vehicle for the "Fast and the Furious" alum, and there's a reason why there's only been one sequel. The dialogue is disgustingly corny, the action is ridiculous, it's super dated by its' technology choices onscreen, and its' villains are ludicrously weird and out of place. The entire film is trying to be a super-fast paced adrenaline ride, utilizing strange costuming, European metal bands in the background of every scene, and gross choices in lighting. Vin Diesel is rheumy eyed throughout, coming off as a dork that has been given the chance to live out their fantasy in an action film. There's absolutely nothing that sets this apart from other action films, except all its references to its time period. It talks about online episodes, anarchists in a politically crazed country, and its look, which is always trying to steal from bigger, better films. Watch the version with RiffTrax, otherwise you won't enjoy any part of this dull, weird mishmash. A very entertaining movie, its a typical Vin Diesel movie really and it is explosive and action packed! XXX is a stupid, poorly executed action film that doesn't have anything great going for it. I absolutely felt that this was a waste of time. Not even Rammstein's cameo could save this film. The film might've had more potential with a better script and a much better actor. However the film was terrible. The films plot is very thin and very cliché. This was a stupid a poorly made action film that has no redeeming values. The acting and story are plainly horrible. Vin Diesel shows yet again that he has no skill as an actor. This film is a poorly made action film that has nothing good going for it. The film is pretty pointless, and it's pretty sloppy in the way it was made. The film is very silly. I mean an extreme sportsman with a "fuck you" attitude becoming a government operative is too stupid to my liking. I honestly thought that this film would be good, but I was wrong. XXX is yet another bad action film, and director Rob Cohen proves that he can't direct whatsoever. XXX is one of those films that should've never been made in the first place. If you're thinking about seeing the film, don't, it's a waste of time. If you love action films, pass up on this one, there's nothing good going on in the film. Like I said the plot isn't that good, or interesting. The film is a wasted opportunity to do something good, and it fails to hit the mark on so many levels. XXX is a coool movie, and a lot of people love it, but it just wasn't for me, it had a dumb and boring plot and it just wasn't great for me. View All Quotes View All