Find industry contacts & talent representation Access in-development titles not available on IMDb Get the latest news from leading industry trades Claim your page and control your brand across IMDb & Amazon With Prime Video Watch now Related lists from IMDb editors Related lists from IMDb users Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below. You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin. Watch the interview An extreme sports athlete, Xander Cage, is recruited by the government on a special mission. Darius Stone, a new agent in the xXx program, is sent to Washington, D.C. to stop a coup attempt against the President of the United States. When a mysterious woman seduces Dom into the world of terrorism and a betrayal of those closest to him, the crew face trials that will test them as never before. Left for dead on a sun-scorched planet, Riddick finds himself up against an alien race of predators. Activating an emergency beacon alerts two ships: one carrying a new breed of mercenary, the other captained by a man from Riddick's past. Deckard Shaw seeks revenge against Dominic Toretto and his family for his comatose brother. The last witch hunter is all that stands between humanity and the combined forces of the most horrifying witches in history. Hobbs has Dominic and Brian reassemble their crew to take down a team of mercenaries: Dominic unexpectedly gets convoluted also facing his presumed deceased girlfriend, Letty. Dominic Toretto and his crew of street racers plan a massive heist to buy their freedom while in the sights of a powerful Brazilian drug lord and a dangerous federal agent. Brian O'Conner, back working for the FBI in Los Angeles, teams up with Dominic Toretto to bring down a heroin importer by infiltrating his operation. The wanted criminal Riddick arrives on a planet called Helion Prime, and finds himself up against an invading empire called the Necromongers, an army that plans to convert or kill all humans in the universe. A deadly threat from Earth's history reappears, and a hunt for a lost artifact takes place between Autobots and Decepticons, while Optimus Prime encounters his creator in space. Bishop thought he had put his murderous past behind him, until his most formidable foe kidnaps the love of his life. Now he is forced to complete three impossible assassinations, and do what he does best: make them look like accidents. Find more things to watch Explore popular action and adventure titles available to stream with Prime Video. Start your free trial Find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet!