An API stands for Application Programming Interface. So, based on the above scenario, an API is nothing but an endpoint (like a url) to which you send a request and receive back data. Hence, in this case, an API is nothing but accessing information stored in databases/datawarehouses of other 3rd parties.(In this case Uber accessing data stored in Google’s databases…) So, an API is something which eases/enhances your software development. If you have any more questions on this, feel free to leave a comment. Cheers ;) If we go by the definition provided by Wikipedia, it states the following: “In computer programming, an application programming interface (API) is a set of subroutine definitions, protocols, and tools for building application software. In general terms, it is a set of clearly defined methods of communication between various software components”. It is correctly defined, but still the meaning is not much clear. So let’s understand it with the help of one small example. Consider an API as a waiter in a restaurant. Suppose you have a menu of your favourite food and the kitchen is the system where your order is made. But how do you take your order till the kitchen? Correct, you call a waiter, give him/her the order, which in turns takes your order till the kitchen and then your order is made there and then finally, the waiter comes back with your delicious ordered food. Thus, the API is very much similar to the waiter. API is the messenger that takes your order(waiter) and tells the system(kitchen) what to do (to prepare food) and in return gives back the response you asked for (waiter returns with the ordered food). To get more clear understanding, lets shift to another example that will clear your remaining doubts too. Have you ever visited any sites that shows an option for signing up through Facebook or Google? How do you think you are able to login and proceed ahead with the application without ever worrying how that code was written!?! It’s because of the API that has simplified all your work. So all the information being provided for Google sign up is done through the API. But good things require precautions and some measures to remain good. So do the API’s! Since most of the API’s are provided for free, it needs some kind of security to keep it safe from various non-productive purposes. Hence, a new concept called API key was introduced. This key can be considered as a permission that you take from the supplier, like from Google, to use their API like for signing up in your website or any other application. There are some API’s that are free to use, but some API’s need to be bought. So in the last, Let me ask you one question: Whenever you book a flight ticket, you go to various other websites like MakeMyTrip , GoIbIbo , Yatra, etc. You hardly ever go to specific airlines website to book a ticket. Still, you get the place at the same Air Plane service that you might have booked through their website. So ever wondered how did this happened? Yes, Again, it’s because of the API. Gosh! You really think you could survive without this. Don't forget to thank your superhero – the API, who manages all your queries without any complaints and returns with the appropriate result. It has made your life much simpler and easy. This superhero is great! I hope you got the real meaning of it! No TextBook language :) There are three common use cases of APIs, and I will provide concrete examples for each to help simplify the concept. Let’s start with an idea: Do I know how to drive? Yes. Do I need to know the internal working of a car in order to be a good (or even great) driver? Should I be concerned with how the fuel gets converted into energy and how this energy is being used by engine which, in turn, coordinates with other mechanical parts of the car to fulfil its purpose - all that happens right when I insert a key? NOPE. Here’s an eg in Node.js: The API of a Math.js module: Hope it helps! Application program interface (API) is a set of procedures, protocols, and tools for building software applications. Just as a graphical user interface makes it easier for people to use programs, application programming interfaces make it easier for developers to use certain technologies in building applications. APIs are one of the most common ways technology companies integrate with each other. Those that provide and use APIs are considered as being members of a business ecosystem. A good API makes it easier to develop a program by providing all the building blocks and a developer then puts the blocks together. An API may be for a web-based system, operating system, database system, computer hardware, or software library and will detail below the types of APIs. Types of APIs There are many different types of APIs for operating systems, applications or websites. Windows, for example, has many API sets that are used by system hardware and applications — when you copy and paste text from one application to another, it is the API that allows that to work. Most operating environments, such as MS-Windows, provide APIs, allowing programmers to write applications consistent with the operating environment. Today, APIs are also specified by websites. For example, Amazon or eBay APIs allow developers to use the existing retail infrastructure to create specialized web stores. Third-party software developers also use Web APIs to create software solutions for end-users. Popular API Examples 1. Google Maps API: Google Maps APIs lets developers embed Google Maps on webpages using a JavaScript or Flash interface. The Google Maps API is designed to work on mobile devices and desktop browsers. 2. YouTube APIs: YouTube API: Google's APIs lets developers integrate YouTube videos and functionality into websites or applications. YouTube APIs include the YouTube Analytics API, YouTube Data API, YouTube Live Streaming API, YouTube Player APIs and others. 3. Flickr API: The Flickr API is used by developers to access the Flick photo sharing community data. The Flickr API consists of a set of callable methods, and some API endpoints. 4. Twitter APIs: Twitter offers two APIs. The REST API allows developers to access core Twitter data and the Search API provides methods for developers to interact with Twitter Search and trends data. 5. Amazon Product Advertising API: Amazon's Product Advertising API gives developers access to Amazon's product selection and discovery functionality to advertise Amazon products to monetize a website. Web APIs A web API is an application programming interface (API) for either a web server or a web browser. It is a web development concept, usually limited to a web application's client-side (including any web frameworks being used), and thus usually does not include web server or browser implementation details such as SAPIs or web browser engine APIs unless publicly accessible by a remote web application. Third Party APIs Please read also this TechCrunch article about the rise of APIs. https://techcrunch.com/2016/05/2... The following references were used to write this article: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ap... https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/We...