This information is for historical purposes    only and it is possible that information contained here may not be  current. The previously administered Academic Performance Index (API) was one component of California’s prior statewide accountability system. The Public Schools Accountability Act (PSAA) of 1999 (Chapter 3, Statutes of 1999) required that the California Department of Education (CDE) annually calculate APIs for California public schools and to publish statewide school decile ranks. The PSAA also established annual API growth targets for each district, school, and student group. The Local Control Funding Formula (LCFF) was enacted in 2013, and was designed to improve student outcomes by providing more resources to meet the educational needs of low-income students, English learners, and foster youth. The law provides more flexibility to districts on how they choose to spend their money. In exchange, districts must provide more transparency by developing local control and accountability plans with meaningful community engagement. In addition, LCFF requires the State Board of Education (SBE) to develop a new statewide accountability system. During the development of this new system, the SBE suspended the calculation of the API and the last API report was produced in 2013. In March 2017, the California SBE and the CDE launched a new accountability system to replace the API. This new, multiple-measures system provides a fuller picture of how districts and schools are addressing the needs of their students while also identifying the specific strengths and areas in need of improvement. The new accountability and continuous improvement system was implemented using an online tool known as the California School Dashboard (Dashboard). Data Files and Record Layouts CDE Locations CDE Mission CDE Organization CDE Staff Directory Contact Us Equal Opportunity Jobs at CDE Newsroom Superintendent's Initiatives Meeting Agendas Meeting Minutes & Schedule Members California School Dashboard Common Core State Standards Complaint Procedures Content Standards Curriculum Resources Education Funding English Language Development Standards Financial Allocations & Apportionments High School Equivalency Tests High School Graduation Requirements Kindergarten in California Released Test Questions Social and Emotional Learning Standards & Frameworks Accountability - School Performance Before & After School Career Technical Education Charter Schools Child Nutrition Child Development Principal Apportionments Safe Schools School Facilities Special Education Standardized Testing Title I Title III California School Directory Education Calendars Education FAQs Language Access Complaint Laws & Regulations Multilingual Documents Publications School and District Reports Web Policy Accessibility Certification © California Department of Education