U.S. stocks rose, tracking a global rally as better-than-expected manufacturing data out of China helped assuage worries of a broad economic slowdown. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) said on Monday it expects to receive Boeing Co's proposed software enhancement package for the grounded 737 MAX "over the coming weeks" after the company had previously said it planned to submit the fix for government approval by last week.  Boeing did not immediately comment on the FAA's statement.  Boeing said last week that it had reprogrammed software on its 737 MAX passenger jet to prevent erroneous data from triggering an anti-stall system that is under mounting scrutiny following the two deadly nose-down crashes. Boeing's stock dipped less than a percent in extended trading after closing up more than 2 percent Monday.  "Time is needed for additional work by Boeing as the result of an ongoing review of the 737 MAX Flight Control System to ensure that Boeing has identified and appropriately addressed all pertinent issues," the FAA said in a statement. NEW YORK, April 01, 2019 -- Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP, a leading national securities law firm, is investigating potential claims against The Boeing Company ("Boeing" or the. U.S. aviation regulators say Boeing needs more time to finish changes in a flight-control system suspected of playing a role in two deadly crashes. Boeing 737 Max needs additional work, the FAA said Monday, adding that a software fix is expected "over the coming weeks." Among the Dow Jones stocks, Apple and Intel are among the top stocks to buy and watch in April 2019. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administrationsaid Monday it expects to get Boeing Co.'s  software fix "over the coming weeks" for its approval, saying that Boeing needs more time for "additional work" as a result of the ongoing review on the 737 Max flight control systems. "Upon receipt, the FAA will subject Boeing's completed submission to a rigorous safety review," the agency said. "The FAA will not approve the software for installation until the agency is satisfied with the submission," it said. The 737 Max has been grounded worldwide after it was in two fatal accidents in less than five months. Shares of Boeing ended 2.7% higher on Monday, and traded 0.5% lower in the extended session. The stock has gained 19% in the past 12 months, compared with a 9% rise for the S&P 500 index. Ethiopian Airlines is expected to release the report of its findings regarding the cause of the March 10 crash that led to the grounding of the entire global 737 MAX fleet this week.  A kneejerk reaction to this may be something along the lines of Boeing Co. (BA) is going to be exposed, so run for cover.  Boeing will be blamed, lawsuits will pile up and shares will collapse. Stocks continued their strong rebound Monday, as good economic news from China and the U.S. buoyed global markets. is flying above its monthly value level for April at $383.08 in anticipation that the crash report due out from Ethiopia will not reveal any significant differences from the October crash in Indonesia.  The software patch for the Boeing 737 MAX 8 airliner is being touted by the company as the AI fix that will prevent a crash given timely pilot intervention.  If there are more concerns from the Ethiopia report or other investigation, the key level to hold is on weakness is the 200-day simple moving average at $359.32. The two crashes killed 356 people and prompted a global grounding and federal inquiries into Boeing's (NYSE: BA) best selling single-aisle jet.  While a spokesperson for Ethiopia’s foreign ministry had previously said a preliminary report would come out Monday, Reuter’s later reported that it would not, though a source said it could come out later this week.   Boeing has continued to build the 737 at the rate of 52 aircraft per month.   Not all of those are the new MAX, though that variant was expected to account for around 90 percent of all 737 deliveries this year. Boeing has also temporarily halted delivery of the MAX to customers. Southwest has the largest fleet of MAX 8 planes in the world, so the carrier has a lot riding on the controversial plane's future. Investing.com - Stocks surged Monday, led by financials on the back of higher U.S. Treasury yields as upbeat manufacturing data from the U.S. and China eased investor worries about slowing global growth. Berkshire Hathaway Underperformed the Markets in Q1(Continued from Prior Part)Southwest AirlinesIn the past, Warren Buffett, Berkshire Hathaway’s (BRK-B) chairman, had a bearish view of the airline sector. In 2013, Buffett called the sector a Liability claims related to the Ethiopian Airlines crash and the grounding of Boeing 737 MAX 8 aircraft could be the largest non-war aviation reinsurance claim on record, hitting reinsurers' profitability, reinsurance broker Willis Re said.  The crash of Ethiopian Airlines flight ET 302 on March 10 killed 157 passengers and crew, the second deadly crash involving a Boeing Co 737 MAX 8 airliner in five months.  As the crash site and black boxes are investigated, the 737 MAX 8 has been grounded worldwide as a precautionary measure and regulators are stepping up action to improve air safety while Boeing is carrying out a software upgrade to the plane's automated flight control system. Amazon.com, Inc. (NASDAQ: AMZN) has made its move into Boeing 737-800 air freighter operations after agreeing to a seven-year lease of five of the narrow-bodied airplanes from Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ: AAWW), one of its flying partners, with the possibility of adding 15 more.  In addition, Atlas has granted Amazon warrants that would allow it to acquire up to 39.9 percent of Atlas' common shares, up from a potential ceiling of 30 percent.  Under a 2016 agreement between the two companies that called for Amazon to lease 20 Boeing 767 freighters, Amazon was granted warrants to buy up to 20 percent of Atlas' common shares. Boeing (NYSE: BA) is one of two major commercial airplane makers in the world, which has helped keep Boeing stock in the spotlight for many years.Source: Shutterstock Yes, there are smaller firms that build smaller planes, but when it comes to most of the planes that fill the world's skies, a lot of those come from BA.Plus, Boeing has a significant aerospace division that includes vital U.S. military and homeland security contracts, beyond its commercial airline business.InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading TipsThe bottom line is, Boeing stock is woven into the U.S. economy and to disentangle it, would take something far more significant than the recent tragedies that we saw in Indonesia and Ethiopia.But that isn't to say that BA stock isn't done correcting. There are going to be Congressional hearings and both BA and its long-time C-suite executive who is now the acting Secretary of Defense Patrick Shanahan will have to manage that.  * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business For BA, it may mean different protocols in its relationship with the Federal Aviation Administration. The two have become very cozy over the years and lax oversight from the FAA meant that BA seemed to be operating as its own de facto supervisor.This will certainly change.As for Shanahan, who had spent 30 years at BA, he'll be answering to accusations that he was less than objective when it came to certain military contracts between his former employer and competing firms. This won't come back to hurt BA stock, but Shanahan may not get to transition from acting secretary to secretary once this is all over. And BA won't have a former big wig running the Department of Defense.As for the planes and the orders, it's unlikely that BA will lose much business since buying planes isn't like buying cars. They're not sitting somewhere waiting for someone to buy them. Bottom Line on Boeing StockNegotiating these deals -- especially the big ones -- takes time. And delivery takes time. Scrapping a deal when you have already planned on implementing the new planes and cutting another deal with another company to replace them is a very big deal.Plus, at this point, it seems this was a software problem that was fixed at the factory but was only offered as an expensive option, rather than made a standard safety upgrade. This is what happens when you nickel and dime safety features in airliners.But the new MAX versions of the 737 will continue to roll off the line and be a huge revenue generator moving forward. Executives at BA and in the federal government will pay a price, but the company will move past this.And that means this big price drop in Boeing stock is a contrarian dream.That's not to say Boeing stock has bottomed. That may not be the case yet, but the upside is far bigger than its downside at this point.My Portfolio Grader has BA stock rated a B right now, and that makes sense. You may want to wait for this whole current mess to pan out, or you can move in and take some of the turbulence. But long-term, Boeing is going … up.Louis Navellier is a renowned growth investor. He is the editor of four investing newsletters: Growth Investor, Breakthrough Stocks, Accelerated Profits and Platinum Growth. His most popular service, Growth Investor, has a track record of beating the market 3:1 over the last 14 years. He uses a combination of quantitative and fundamental analysis to identify market-beating stocks. Mr. Navellier has made his proven formula accessible to investors via his free, online stock rating tool, PortfolioGrader.com. Louis Navellier may hold some of the aforementioned securities in one or more of his newsletters. More From InvestorPlace  * 2 Toxic Pot Stocks You Should Avoid   * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business   * 8 Genomic Testing Stocks That Can Ease the Sting of Theranos   * 7 Weak Blue-Chip Stocks to Trim Immediately Compare Brokers The post Should You Buy Boeing Stock Now? appeared first on InvestorPlace. Boeing's (BA) AV-8B Harrier strike aircraft is used for carrying out special combats and expeditionary requirements for the Marine Corps. Kansas City Chiefs quarterback Patrick Mahomes is beginning to build his business portfolio off the field with companies like Airshare, Oakley, and Hunt's ketchup. Mahomes joins Yahoo Finance’s Dan Roberts, Melody Hahm, and Myles Udland to discuss. CNBC's Phil LeBeau reports on the FAA's latest statement regarding Boeing's software fix for its 737 Max planes. Saudi Arabia has no immediate plans to allow Boeing 737 MAX aircraft to operate in the kingdom, its transport minister said on Monday, as state airline flyadeal potentially reconsiders an order for the jets. Edward Baran reports.