Quite a bold statement you might wonder. But that is our goal for all non-commercial projects. The whole certificate authority industry likes to make money on the back of non-commercial projects. They typically lure you into a free code-signing certificate for 1 to 3 years and then there comes payday. If you don’t go for it your certificate won’t get extended and expires (and with it your signed assets). An amazing open-source and non-commercial community is providing great software, tools and documents saving billions of hours for others. You, as part of that community, shouldn’t pay for any protection or management of their assets (files, documents, releases). Leveraging the distributed ledger technology makes it possible to avoid the enormous costs involved to build a high-secure data-center and go through all the typical market-regulating hurdles to offer alternative solutions. CodeNotary does exactly that: Automatically creating a unique hash of your digital assets and store that on an immutable distributed way. That entry does include author information and a trust level. The better proof of the ownership and the author’s identity the higher goes the trust level of assets. That way CodeNotary allows you to store every single asset of yours in a secure and immutable way, without going through all the trouble with digital certificates to sign your code. Furthermore, instead of being limited to revoke a whole certificate with all of its signed assets, CodeNotary allows a change of the trust level for every single asset. We invite all non-commercial project owners, developers to get their all-time free license here: When you start using CodeNotary, you automatically get the dashboard access where you can see and manage all digital assets you ever signed. To sign files, documents, docker container and more, you need to use the vcn command line as well. But let’s dig into the 2 important components. All is done with 2 simple components: As we’re just getting started there is much more to come. At that time we already support the following actions: The vcn Command can be used on Linux, MacOS or Microsoft Windows: In case you only want to use vcn to verify existing files, there is no need to login. When using vcn for Windows things get even simpler based on the Windows explorer integration. That makes it very convenient to sign or verify files while browsing within the Windows File explorer. The best is to sign up on our landing page for non-commercial projects and then register on our CodeNotary dashboard. Please make sure to use the email address and send the project url to your non-commercial offering. We activate your license as fast as possible (usually within a day) and then you’re good to go. And please don’t forget to leave feedback as we love to get your opinion on our products. You can always use our chat to contact us and get your questions answered. Best in class VMware vSphere monitoring and analytics ITNEXT is a platform for IT developers & software engineers to share knowledge, connect, collaborate, learn and experience next-gen technologies.