Curious about copyright? Find out why it’s important to consider copyright when publishing content online. Recognize what tools are available for creators and content owners to handle copyright protection on YouTube. Build your presence and fanbase on YouTube, understand how monetization and copyright work, and ultimately, grow your music and career. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. For years, creators have been earning money in more ways than just ads. YouTube now offers tools like Super Chat and channel memberships, as well as a merch shelf integration with Teespring, to diversify your monetization options. This can make it easier for you to grow your YouTube business or drive engagement on your channel. Get tips for utilizing monetization options beyond ads and encouraging participation from your audience. First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. At YouTube, our mission is to give everyone a voice and show them the world. We want to help people share and build community through their stories. This includes your stories, which bring awareness to social issues and inspire action. Did you know that 1.5 billion people are logged in and coming to YouTube every single month? That’s the equivalent of one in every five people around the world! On average, our viewers spend over an hour a day watching YouTube on mobile devices alone. YouTube enables you to reach a large and passionate audience who can help amplify your cause through their social networks. Whether you’re new to the platform or trying to take your channel to the next level, you’ve come to the right place. We’ve designed this course in the Creator Academy specifically for nonprofits. You’ll learn ways to tell your stories on YouTube through video and capture viewers’ attention with emotion. We’ll also give you quick tips for fine-tuning your channel and getting the most out of YouTube. YouTube’s built-in tools can help you connect with your viewers, improve your video performance, and even fundraise. We’re excited for nonprofits to captivate and activate supporters on YouTube by leveraging the power of storytelling to reach more than 88 countries around the world. Ready? Check out these lessons—and join the Creator Community to start discussions with other nonprofits! To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Ready to grow and sustain a loyal audience on YouTube? Start with a creative foundation and strong, workable ideas. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Today’s media landscape is changing, and channel managers can learn how to best support and grow the channels they manage in the YouTube ecosystem by assessing how a channel fits into different content categories. Get the scoop on how monetization works on YouTube and ways you can make money on your videos. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Let’s get started! We’ll show you how to quickly set up your channel, upload videos, and align your branding. Plus, we’ll walk you through some important guidelines for being part of the YouTube community. First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Working with brands can be an alternative revenue stream for YouTube creators and an opportunity to introduce new products and services to their audience. Learn strategies for how to find and reach out to brands that your audience will love and what to do once you’ve been hired. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. YouTube is an evolving platform, and similar to other forms of media, trends change over time—just like your interests will likely change too. Long-term success on YouTube requires creators to be nimble and pivot creatively throughout their YouTube careers. This course offers a roadmap to help you sustainably grow on YouTube for the long term. You’ll learn tangible advice for evaluating your channel (and your well-being), exploring new creative ideas, making your video production efficient, and expanding your reach through collaborations. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Creators on YouTube are in a unique position to generate positive social impact by creating meaningful dialogue around current topics and issues. Get the tools to help communicate your message on YouTube. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Set your gaming channel up for success with these tools and techniques. Disclaimer: Different game publishers have different rules around how their games can be used and/or potentially monetized on YouTube. Make sure you understand the terms and conditions for any game footage that you plan on uploading. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Self-care is an important practice within any career, including being a YouTube Creator. Learn tips for staying healthy, balanced, safe, and efficient with your time and channel, so that you don’t burn out. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. It’s time for your shoot. Captivate your audience with interesting shot composition. Use lighting effectively to set the mood. And learn how to record sound like a pro. First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. See how to apply a consistent framework to measure channel performance and uncover opportunities for channel growth. Recognize what questions you can ask and what data you can analyze to determine next steps. Learn to set up a channel, promote your music, encourage fans to tune in, and take your channel to the top of the charts. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Every audience is different. Learn how to reach the viewers you want and make your channel a daily destination for them. A lot of planning goes into a successful YouTube video. Before pressing ‘record’, find out what equipment works best for you, how to turn your idea into a story, and what other steps you can take to be ready for your shoot. First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. 360-degree video and virtual reality are changing how audiences can experience video. This course will get you acquainted with this new technology, help you decide whether producing videos in 360 is right for your channel and offer some tips to get started. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Beauty and fashion videos on YouTube range from helpful tutorials to personality-driven series. Many successful beauty and fashion channels adopt existing strategies and formats, but often the most successful take a unique approach to their subject that allows them to stand out from the crowd. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. YouTube is the best place for fans around the world to discover and share music. We want to help labels, publishers, and other music partners make the most of YouTube’s large and diverse audience—to reach more fans and add revenue. We’ve designed this course in the Creator Academy for music content owners who have access to Content ID. You’ll learn about scalable tools and expert strategies to deliver your music content and manage your digital rights on YouTube. We’ll share insights for turning your YouTube channel into a business. Learn about setting up your business, defining and communicating your brand, scaling up your business with more resources, and promoting your brand through media opportunities. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. YouTube Live lets you connect and engage with your audience in more meaningful ways. Whether you’re new to live streaming or looking to enhance your live streaming experience, this course offers tools and strategies to help you be successful. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Find long-term success by building a loyal fanbase. Socially engage with your audience on and off YouTube to see results. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Share your stories with a global audience. Channels geared towards worldwide audiences often see an uplift in key metrics like watch time and subscribers. You can increase accessibility of new and existing videos with platform tools that translate and transcribe them. Additionally, certain types of videos tend to be more relevant to all audiences. Learn strategies to boost the visibility of your channel to audiences around the world. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Get expert tips for selecting your editing tools and editing your videos like a pro. Also, find out how adding music and sound effects can further engage your audience. First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. YouTube Analytics is your channel's pulse. Learn how to uncover trends to see what’s working and what's not. Find out who’s watching, what they like to watch, and which videos could make you the most money. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Enhance your channel’s search and discovery potential on YouTube using metadata, collaborations, captions and promotions. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. You can change lives by making educational videos on YouTube! YouTube is a powerful medium for learning because it’s accessible to worldwide audiences and hosts a diverse collection of learning videos. This course offers strategies for all creators interested in making educational videos on YouTube— whether you want to provide skill-building tips and help viewers advance their career, teach an online curriculum, make ‘how-to’ videos, or experiment with an entertaining learning series. Click into the lessons below to get started. To complete this course: First, sign in, then finish the lessons at your own pace and pass the course exam with 75% to get your letter of completion. Dive into revenue on YouTube—what the benefits are, ways to maximize your revenue streams, how ads are served, and how you can measure revenue performance.