Advertisement No established democracies have ever come as close to applying such sweeping restrictions as Australia and New Zealand are considering in the wake of the Christchurch mosque shootings. By Damien Cave Neal Mohan discusses the streaming site’s recommendation engine, which has become a growing liability amid accusations that it steers users to increasingly extreme content. By Kevin Roose Reviled in the ’50s, embraced in the ’60s, the Humphrey Bogart vehicle “Beat the Devil” is still spry at 65. By J. Hoberman How to curb the exposure of videos like that of the shootings in New Zealand. By Charlie Warzel Five of the industry’s most influential voices offer their suggestions. By Robin Swithinbank It’s time for a real conversation about the infrastructure and incentives that Big Tech provides far-right extremists. By Charlie Warzel A killer determined to make terrorism go viral beat a system designed to keep the worst of the web out of sight. By The Editorial Board The half-hour show will premiere in September and make her the only woman with a late-night show on one of the so-called Big Four broadcast networks, a statement said. By Concepción de León The killer urged people to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” the pseudonym of the YouTube star Felix Kjellberg, who said this “absolutely sickened” him. By Niraj Chokshi The terrorist attack in New Zealand is shocking on every level — and feels like a first for how unmistakably online it was. By Kevin Roose Lawmakers and social media platforms each have a role to play in fighting back. By The Editorial Board, Taige Jensen, Jenn Lyon and Joey Abisso A unique new cooking series, a British remake and something for all the lovable losers. By Margaret Lyons The real “Momo Challenge” is the terror of parenting in the age of YouTube. Here’s the truth of what we know. By John Herrman Brands are giving lucrative endorsement deals to young children on YouTube and Instagram, raising questions about whether their young followers should be seeing that kind of marketing. By Sapna Maheshwari The move by the video-sharing site was a response to the latest content-related problem to touch off a firestorm of criticism among users and advertisers. By Daisuke Wakabayashi The digital platform is grappling with the proliferation of anti-vaccination content online, a problem also faced by Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. By Christina Caron In this week’s newsletter, Nicole Perlroth explains why U.S. companies and government agencies face renewed cybersecurity concerns. By Nicole Perlroth Google said it had deleted the accounts and channels of people leaving the comments in question, but acknowledged “there’s more to be done.” By Daisuke Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari What if stemming the tide of misinformation on YouTube means punishing some of its biggest stars? By Kevin Roose In the popular videos, the artists — mostly women — whisper, use props and role-play to help viewers feel calm. It’s not about sex, research suggests. No established democracies have ever come as close to applying such sweeping restrictions as Australia and New Zealand are considering in the wake of the Christchurch mosque shootings. By Damien Cave Neal Mohan discusses the streaming site’s recommendation engine, which has become a growing liability amid accusations that it steers users to increasingly extreme content. By Kevin Roose Reviled in the ’50s, embraced in the ’60s, the Humphrey Bogart vehicle “Beat the Devil” is still spry at 65. By J. Hoberman How to curb the exposure of videos like that of the shootings in New Zealand. By Charlie Warzel Five of the industry’s most influential voices offer their suggestions. By Robin Swithinbank It’s time for a real conversation about the infrastructure and incentives that Big Tech provides far-right extremists. By Charlie Warzel A killer determined to make terrorism go viral beat a system designed to keep the worst of the web out of sight. By The Editorial Board The half-hour show will premiere in September and make her the only woman with a late-night show on one of the so-called Big Four broadcast networks, a statement said. By Concepción de León The killer urged people to “subscribe to PewDiePie,” the pseudonym of the YouTube star Felix Kjellberg, who said this “absolutely sickened” him. By Niraj Chokshi The terrorist attack in New Zealand is shocking on every level — and feels like a first for how unmistakably online it was. By Kevin Roose Lawmakers and social media platforms each have a role to play in fighting back. By The Editorial Board, Taige Jensen, Jenn Lyon and Joey Abisso A unique new cooking series, a British remake and something for all the lovable losers. By Margaret Lyons The real “Momo Challenge” is the terror of parenting in the age of YouTube. Here’s the truth of what we know. By John Herrman Brands are giving lucrative endorsement deals to young children on YouTube and Instagram, raising questions about whether their young followers should be seeing that kind of marketing. By Sapna Maheshwari The move by the video-sharing site was a response to the latest content-related problem to touch off a firestorm of criticism among users and advertisers. By Daisuke Wakabayashi The digital platform is grappling with the proliferation of anti-vaccination content online, a problem also faced by Facebook, YouTube and Twitter. By Christina Caron In this week’s newsletter, Nicole Perlroth explains why U.S. companies and government agencies face renewed cybersecurity concerns. By Nicole Perlroth Google said it had deleted the accounts and channels of people leaving the comments in question, but acknowledged “there’s more to be done.” By Daisuke Wakabayashi and Sapna Maheshwari What if stemming the tide of misinformation on YouTube means punishing some of its biggest stars? By Kevin Roose In the popular videos, the artists — mostly women — whisper, use props and role-play to help viewers feel calm. It’s not about sex, research suggests. Go to Home Page »