GitHub is home to over 31 million developers working together to host and review code, manage projects, and build software together. Use Git or checkout with SVN using the web URL. Go back Go back Go back Go back Nowadays, the cost of computing many different models and hyperparameters is much lower than the opportunity cost of an data scientist's time. automl-gs is a Python 3 module designed to abstract away the common approaches to transforming tabular data, architecting machine learning/deep learning models, and performing random hyperparameter searches to identify the best-performing model. This allows data scientists and researchers to better utilize their time on model performance optimization. Currently automl-gs supports the generation of models for regression and classification problems using the following Python frameworks: To be implemented: If you want to use a different framework or configure the training, you can do it with flags: You may also invoke automl-gs directly from Python. (e.g. via a Jupyter Notebook) The output of the automl-gs training is: Once the training is done, you can run the generated files from the command line within the generated folder above. To predict: To retrain the model on new data: TL;DR: auto-ml gs generates raw Python code using Jinja templates and trains a model using the generated code in a subprocess: repeat using different hyperparameters until done and save the best model. automl-gs then runs the generated training script as if it was a typical user. Once the model is trained, automl-gs saves the training results in its own CSV, along with all the hyperparameters used to train the model. automl-gs then repeats the task with another set of hyperparameters, until the specified number of trials is hit or the user kills the script. The best model Python script is kept after each trial, which can then easily be integrated into other scripts, or run directly to get the prediction results on a new dataset. Feature development will continue on automl-gs as long as there is interest in the package. MIT The code generated by automl-gs is unlicensed; the owner of the generated code can decide the license.