It's been great. And we'll make it greater. Most magazines have the life expectancy of a house plant. It was clear to Phil, and to approximately nobody else, that Linux was going to kick the ass of every UNIX in the world, plus all other operating systems as well, including the big one headquartered a few miles away from SSC's office in Seattle. Linux was a very hot item while the bubble gassed up. In fact, there was nothing hotter. The two biggest IPOs in 1999 were Red Hat and VA Linux. One wag observed that more VC money was spent on booths at Linux World Expos during that time than money was actually made in sales by the same companies. We reaped derivative benefits in the form of VC-funded advertising. The main difference after that shift was geographic distribution. While we were as centralized as could be in Seattle, we were now as distributed as could be, with a Houston address and not much more there. Our next big change came in 2011, when we moved to all-digital publishing, because newsstand bookstores were dying (goodbye Borders), and the cost of printing became impossibly high. To our amazement and extreme satisfaction, we gained more subscribers in that move than we lost. (We love our subscribers.) Since then, we've done our best to super-serve our core subscriber base while expanding our editorial scope to adjacent topics that always have been Linux features: free and open-source software, personal liberty and empowerment, and challenges in a shifting digital world that depends on Linux to the same degree that buildings and boats depend on gravity. But Linux isn't done, and neither are we. I make that point in this April issue's feature story on kids. (Subscribers: look for the April issue in your inbox tomorrow, Tuesday, April 2.) Think for a moment about what happens to the world when every kid owns root for their whole lives as well as for their machines—and when they are as comfortable in shells on their Linux boxen as they are in their own clothes. Much cause for hope there. So here's to the readers—and especially our subscribers—who have kept us alive and kicking ass for a quarter century. And here's to the futures those kids are going to write and debug for the world.  Sign up to get all the good stuff delivered to your inbox every week. Subscribe and support our coverage for technology's biggest thinkers – with up to 52% savings. Linux Journal, currently celebrating its 25th year of publication, is the original magazine of the global Open Source community. Powered by