Graduate student Hilary Yip blended her knowledge of martial arts with her background in music therapy to help boys on the autism spectrum improve their coordination and confidence. The Frost School of Music’s Band of the Hour thrilled concertgoers at Saturday’s Ultra Music Festival. Alumna Gloria Estefan and daughter Emily perform at the Library of Congress, which honored Gloria and husband Emilio for their lifetime achievement in “promoting the genre of song” to inspire and entertain. An employee who gets paid in head scratches and tennis balls? Meet Thunder, UMPD’s highly trained K9 officer. More than 40 University of Miami students spent spring break in a half-dozen U.S. communities learning about social issues and helping others as part of the Alternative Breaks program. The School of Nursing and Health Studies’ global research training program for minority students is helping diversify the health sciences workforce. Associate professors William Pestle and Kathleen Sullivan Sealey traveled with students over spring break to Puerto Rico and the Bahamas on research trips that delve into the effects of climate change. The School of Nursing and Health Studies’ global research training program for minority students is helping diversify the health sciences workforce. Associate professors William Pestle and Kathleen Sullivan Sealey traveled with students over spring break to Puerto Rico and the Bahamas on research trips that delve into the effects of climate change. The School of Nursing and Health Studies’ global research training program for minority students is helping diversify the health sciences workforce. Associate professors William Pestle and Kathleen Sullivan Sealey traveled with students over spring break to Puerto Rico and the Bahamas on research trips that delve into the effects of climate change. UM alumnus Eugene Williams Sr. is on a crusade to get the black national anthem played at more NBA and college games in February. Harold "Hal” Long, Jr., Esq., a longtime lawyer, founder of United Black Students at UM and a current member of the Citizens Board, has a true affinity for UM. Discover dates to attend a digital career services event, either Virtual Career Café to polish your résumé and sharpen your skills or 'Canes Mentoring 'Canes, to learn from the experts. Read the latest issue of UM Alumni Association’s monthly newsletter. Find news, profiles and events specific to ‘Canes around the world. UM alumnus Eugene Williams Sr. is on a crusade to get the black national anthem played at more NBA and college games in February. Harold "Hal” Long, Jr., Esq., a longtime lawyer, founder of United Black Students at UM and a current member of the Citizens Board, has a true affinity for UM. Discover dates to attend a digital career services event, either Virtual Career Café to polish your résumé and sharpen your skills or 'Canes Mentoring 'Canes, to learn from the experts. Read the latest issue of UM Alumni Association’s monthly newsletter. Find news, profiles and events specific to ‘Canes around the world. UM alumnus Eugene Williams Sr. is on a crusade to get the black national anthem played at more NBA and college games in February. Harold "Hal” Long, Jr., Esq., a longtime lawyer, founder of United Black Students at UM and a current member of the Citizens Board, has a true affinity for UM. Discover dates to attend a digital career services event, either Virtual Career Café to polish your résumé and sharpen your skills or 'Canes Mentoring 'Canes, to learn from the experts. Read the latest issue of UM Alumni Association’s monthly newsletter. Find news, profiles and events specific to ‘Canes around the world.