Despite busy schedules with exams, classes and extracurriculars, three University of Delaware students volunteer their time serving the local community as firefighters.  More UD News Basketball player honored for leadership Abby Gonzales, an education major at UD, was recognized by the Colonial Athletic Association this week when she was named the winner of the conference’s Dean Ehler’s Leadership Award.  Swimmer manages his time as athlete, biology student Kyle Weston is an expert at time management, packing a lot into his average day and week: He is a University of Delaware swimmer, Dean's List biology student, Blue Hen Ambassador and a student alumni ambassador.  Dawn Fallik, who teaches journalism at UD, specializing in medical writing, will speak at the South by Southwest (SXSW) conference on Friday, March 8, in Austin, Texas. The topic of her panel discussion, “Generation Lonely: 10,000 Followers and No Friends,” has proved so popular that a second, encore session has been added to the schedule. “The panel will focus on why so many people feel lonely, the medical and mental consequences of being isolated and what we can do about it—and that's a different path for everyone,” says Fallik, who is writing a book about the causes, consequences and ways to address loneliness across generations. At UD, Fallik is a co-organizer of the “Words for Nerds” seminar, which teaches STEM doctoral students how to communicate with the public across media platforms. 1,833 First-year Delawareans enrolled $2.8 billion Top 20 on-time graduation rate among public universities James R. Soles Professor, Political Science and International Relations  David Redlawsk is a nationally known authority on politics who researches campaigns, elections, voter decision making and emotional responses to campaign information. Professor of Business Administration  Wendy Smith is an expert on the #metoo movement who studies workplace issues and mentors female leaders in business. View all UD Experts  Find out more Celebrating the achievements of UD women