We respond to the changing world around us, and our trailblazing degrees let you lead the way. It’s amazing the way the Eagle Operations Center is set up. It looks like something out of the movies. You wouldn’t expect to see it on a typical college campus. There’s a round table with all the TV monitors and a giant touch table. I am so thankful to have found a university that understands that soldiers have a job to do—a university that works with us to help us get our education. I worked at NASA Ames Research Center on wind tunnel testing for Black Hawk Helicopters. I also helped work on the design for a B22. I got to fly the world's first vertical motion simulator-the simulator they use to help train astronauts how to fly the shuttle-and I got paid for all of it. At Rockwell Collins, we invest in the relationship with Embry-Riddle because we know that the talent that comes from the institution is passionate about what we do. Graduates are skilled and ready to make an impact. Not only does Embry-Riddle produce passionate students, the school also provides a skilled and diverse workforce to meet our hiring needs. 0 As a Federal Aviation Administration-approved school, flight students in designated degree programs need 1,000 hours to become first officers—500 fewer hours than other schools. The Embry-Riddle Company is founded by T. Higbee Embry and John Paul Riddle at Cincinnati’s Lunken Airport on Dec. 17 – exactly 22 years to the day after the Wright brothers’ famed flight at Kitty Hawk. The Embry-Riddle Flying School, which opened in spring 1926, gains attention in 1927 when the school trains student Frank Shelton to fly solo in only 5 hours, 34 minutes – believed to be the shortest amount of time at that point. Cincinnati becomes one of the nation’s first cities with direct Airmail service. The Embry-Riddle Company wins the contract because it had "gained a name for itself through the industry, the quality of its flying school, and the high tone of operations at Lunken Airport," according to the Cincinnati Enquirer. After thorough examination by the Aeronautics Branch of the U.S. Department of Commerce, Embry-Riddle’s Flying School becomes one of the first five schools in the country to receive an “Approved School Certificate” under the Air Commerce Act. The U.S. government selects the now 										Miami-based Embry-Riddle Company to train pilots for the U.S. Army Air Corps, the predecessor to the U.S. Air Force. By the height of WWII, Embry-Riddle is the largest privately operated flight school in the world. In the post-war years, the Riddle Aeronautical Institute continues to train pilots but struggles financially until the early 1960s, when increased demand for aviators causes the school to outgrow its Miami facilities. The Embry-Riddle Aeronautical Institute, established as a non-profit corporation in 1959, moves from Miami to Daytona Beach, FL, in 1965, in what the school calls “Operation Bootstrap.” Embry-Riddle achieves university status in 1970 and becomes Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University. That same year, the first residence center is established in Fort Rucker, AL, the beginning of Embry-Riddle’s Worldwide Campus.  Later in the decade, the university opens a residential campus in Prescott, AZ. With residential campuses now in Daytona Beach, FL, and Prescott, AZ, tens of thousands of online students, and 135+ Worldwide locations around the world, Embry-Riddle Aeronautical University continues to train the world’s best pilots, plus some of the best engineers, mechanics, air traffic controllers, meteorologists, and many others.