Those boxes are the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder. Both use solid state hard drives, with memory cards on a circuit board. The first logs all the details that together provide a picture of everything the plane was doing as much as 25 hours before a crash: the positions of various switches, engine settings, airspeed, altitude, and more than 1,000 other parameters. Examine that data and “you know what happened to the airplane physically,” says aviation consultant Kit Darby. The cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder from Ethiopian Flight 302 arrived in Paris on Thursday, where investigators will examine the data that could reveal what brought down the Boeing 737 MAX 8 jet. The BEA lab workers start by opening up each box and removing the one-inch layer of thermal protective insulation inside. Once they’ve got the memory board out, they put it under a microscope—some of the components are just millimeters across—looking for damage. Then they put them into an x-ray machine, to inspect what they can’t see with the microscope. And the fact that the Air France plane’s black boxes made it through their underwater burial at all tells you just how tough-as-mothers they really are. In fact, the flight data recorder came out fine. The cockpit voice recorder was in slightly worse shape. The French team reported a cracked capacitor and resistor, plus damage to two “decoder-type” components. Before doing anything else, the team put the memory cards into an oven to remove any moisture (36 hours for the flight data recorder, 42 for the cockpit voice recorder). Then they removed the damaged bits and soldered in new ones. It’s technical work, but far from impossible. Other types of damage aren’t so easy to fix, Darby says. “If it’s crushed, you’re not going to be able to read it.” And damage to the memory cards themselves is more worrisome than whatever may happen to the other parts of the circuit board. “That may or may not be recoverable.” In the case of Air France 447, once the memory boards were fully dried out, the lab workers hooked the cards up to their reader. (They’re one of the few places in the world to have one; the National Transportation Safety Board’s lab in Washington, DC, is another.) They downloaded and synced up the data. Then they got to work figuring out what brought down the jet. A year later, in 2012, they released their final report. The plane stalled at cruising altitude after ice clogged the speed sensors, the autopilot shut off in response, and the pilots mismanaged the situation. Now that the black box process is starting over in Paris, the results could reveal what brought down Ethiopian Flight 302 and led to the grounding of the world’s Boeing 737 MAX jets. Nothing will happen quickly. Full investigations usually take about 18 months—but preliminary data released before then can start to shed light on what happened. USC houses a collection of twisted, burnt, jagged aircraft wrecks in a warehouse outside Los Angeles and it's where they train students to act as detectives in helicopter and plane crashes. CNMN Collection © 2018 Condé Nast. All rights reserved.