Have Watchlists? Log in to see them here or sign up to get started. There are currently no items in this Watchlist. Create a list of the investments you want to track. Something went wrong while loading Watchlist. Visit a quote page and your recently viewed tickers will be displayed here. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administrationsaid Monday it expects to get Boeing Co.'s  software fix "over the coming weeks" for its approval, saying that Boeing needs more time for "additional work" as a result of the ongoing review on the 737 Max flight control systems. "Upon receipt, the FAA will subject Boeing's completed submission to a rigorous safety review," the agency said. "The FAA will not approve the software for installation until the agency is satisfied with the submission," it said. The 737 Max has been grounded worldwide after it was in two fatal accidents in less than five months. Shares of Boeing ended 2.7% higher on Monday, and traded 0.5% lower in the extended session. The stock has gained 19% in the past 12 months, compared with a 9% rise for the S&P 500 index. The rally in the Dow Jones Industrial Average  is on track to be unanimous, as shares of all 30 components are rallying in premarket as Dow futures  climbs 213 points. The biggest gainers were shares of Caterpillar Inc. , up 1.7%, and Boeing Co. , rallying 1.4%. DowDuPont Inc.'s stock  tacked on 1.2% ahead of the open, on its last day in the Dow, as the chemical giant is set to be replaced in the Dow by its spin of Dow Inc. The Dow has gained 11.2% year to date through Friday, the biggest quarterly gain since the 11.3% rally in the first quarter of 2013. Figures released by China indicated that its manufacturing sector is growing again. That’s good news for the global economy and it sent Asian and European shares higher in overseas trading. In other positive news, UPS stock got an upgrade. The end of the first quarter is almost here, and the Dow Jones Industrial Average is up 10.2% to start the year. That’s the best start since 2013. In the new 21st century space race, there should be more commercial players generating revenue from the final frontier. It’s the legacy carriers with lower profits that Boeing has to worry about. Reports on Boeing’s 737 MAX jet problems continue to gush forth. Judging the impact of the news flow on a stock isn’t easy. But a deluge of news might not always help, especially when it comes stock volatility. Get the market numbers you need to start your day with Barron’s audio news briefing. This week on The Readback, Alex Eule is joined by tech reporter Tae Kim to discuss Google’s ambitious new strategy to bring gaming to the cloud. Boeing Co.  said Wednesday its reviews of flight-control systems on its 737 Max found no additional problems, according to media reports citing a company briefing at its headquarters in Washington state. The aircraft was involved in a second fatal crash in less than five months. In a separate press release, the company said it will report first-quarter results on April 24. The company scheduled a call with analysts that day at 10:30 a.m. Eastern. Shares of Boeing rose 1.4% on Wednesday and are up 17% in the last 12 months, which compares with gains around 6% for the S&P 500 index. Baird analyst Peter Arment, who cut his earnings estimates in a research report today, is still bullish on the aircraft maker’s shares, even after a pair of devastating crashes. Southwest Airlines partly blamed flight cancellations caused by the grounding of the Boeing 737 MAX 8 fleet for what it said would be $150 million in lost revenue in the first quarter. Stocks are mixed on Wednesday morning ahead of the market open. Deal making is alive and well in 2019. This morning, Centene agreed to buy WellCare. Also, Southwest cut first quarter capacity guidance because of Boeing’s woes. Flight simulations that attempted to recreate the problems that caused a Lion Air plane made by Boeing Inc.  to crash in Indonesia last fall found that pilots had less than 40 seconds to override an automated system, the New York Times reported Tuesday, citing two people familiar with the matter. in the tests, pilots found that a single sensor failed, triggering software that was designed to prevent a stall. As soon as that happened, pilots had to move fast to disengage the system to avoid a nose dive of the jet, a Boeing 737 Max. The automated system, known as MCAS, is the focus for investigators seeking to determine what happened to the Lion Air plane, as well as an Ethiopian Airlines crash of the same Boeing model earlier this month. The two people told the paper that those conducting the testing had not understood the power of the MCAS. Pilots had received only limited training on the system before the first crash and the captain of the Lion Air flight was looking through a technical manual during the final minutes, said the paper. Boeing shares have fallen 13% in the past month as airlines around the world grounded their 737 Max jets and the aerospace giant was forced to stop deliveries. The Dow Jones Industrial Average , which counts Boeing as a member, has fallen 1.6% in the same time frame. The 131-point rally in futures  for the Dow Jones Industrial Average  is unanimous Tuesday, as all 30 components were rising in premarket trade. The biggest gainer was Nike Inc.'s stock, which rose 1.24%, followed by Apple Inc. shares, which climbed 1.20%. Among other gainers, shares of Boeing Co.  rose 1.0% and J.P. Morgan Chase & Co.  tacked on 0.9% ahead of the open. Airlines across the U.S. reported delays to departures, blaming a system fault. The FAA said several airlines were experiencing issues with a flight-planning program. Tension is simmering between U.S. and Ethiopian officials as investigators prepare to release an interim report about the Boeing 737 MAX jetliner that nose-dived after takeoff from Addis Ababa on March 10. Corrections & Amplifications for the edition of March 30-31, 2019 New details of the crash of Ethiopian Airlines flight ET302 paint a picture of a catastrophic failure that quickly overwhelmed the flight crew. Investigators have preliminarily concluded that a Boeing automated flight-control feature activated before the plane nose-dived into the ground. Today’s Top Supply Chain and Logistics News From WSJ. Officials investigating the fatal crash of a Boeing 737 MAX in Ethiopia have reached a preliminary conclusion that a suspect flight-control feature automatically activated before the plane nose-dived. Under pressure, the aerospace giant needed the redesign of its crucial jetliner to go swiftly and smoothly, so it pursued a path that reduced regulatory scrutiny and required as little new training as possible. Many pilots say Boeing’s choices left them in the dark, with tragic consequences. The family of a passenger killed in an Ethiopian Airlines crash earlier this month sued Boeing in a U.S. court, broadening the litigation faced by the plane maker over its 737 MAX jetliner. The law firm that helped pioneer 401(k)-fee lawsuits against big companies more than a decade ago announced a $55 million settlement against ABB, a company specializing in power grids and robotics. The World Trade Organization Thursday handed the European Union a victory in a protracted trade battle with the U.S. over plane subsidies given to Boeing, moving the EU closer to imposing potentially large retaliatory tariffs. Boeing and Indonesian flag carrier Garuda moved closer Thursday to resolving the airline’s request to alter or cancel a longstanding order for 737 MAX jets following the aircraft model’s two recent crashes, with one option being to switch to different planes, Garuda’s chief executive said.​ Federal transportation officials defended the government’s response to two fatal crashes of a new Boeing airliner, even as questions grew about whether the jet should have been certified for commercial use. A Boeing official said the company is conducting a broader audit of systems on the 737 MAX aircraft in addition to the stall-prevention feature suspected of playing a role in two crashes, but hasn’t found anything of concern. Southwest Airlines cut Boeing’s 737 MAX jets from its schedule for another month but offered a bullish outlook for air-travel demand in the second quarter, triggering a rally for shares in the sector. Apple, Centene, WellCare, DowDuPont, KB Home, Shoe Carnival, and J.C. Penney are among Wednesday’s stocks to watch. A Southwest Airlines Boeing 737 MAX made an emergency landing in Orlando after an engine problem forced pilots to abort a flight to an aircraft parking facility in California. The acting head of the Federal Aviation Administration will tell a Senate panel Wednesday that the agency’s approach to regulating safety must “evolve” in the wake of two recent crashes of the Boeing 737 MAX. The 737 MAX crashes have put the spotlight on digital retrofits to older equipment—a new realm of vulnerabilities for tech and safety experts. Investors have wiped $40 billion off Boeing’s market value this month, even though the 737 MAX crisis is unlikely to add more than $5 billion to its costs. Congressional investigators examining the FAA safety certification of Boeing’s 737 MAX aircraft also are questioning why it has taken so long to complete a safety fix initially raised in November. Airlines across the U.S. reported delays to departures, blaming a system fault. The FAA said several airlines were experiencing issues with a flight-planning program. Looming Ethiopian Airlines Report Could Be Bullish for Boeing Should You Buy Boeing Stock Now? Boeing's (BA) AV-8B Harrier strike aircraft is used for carrying out special combats and expeditionary requirements for the Marine Corps. Markets closed in the green on Friday, the last trading day of the first quarter of 2019. A generous flow of contracts from the Pentagon helps major indices of the aerospace and defense industry to end in the green during the trailing five trading sessions. Ethiopia to release preliminary 737 MAX crash report Wall Street Breakfast: China Factory Rebound Propels Equities Tension is simmering between U.S. and Ethiopian officials as investigators prepare to release an interim report about the Boeing 737 MAX jetliner that nose-dived after takeoff from Addis Ababa on March 10. The Boeing 737 Max Problem - How Much Are They Self-Insuring? Automakers, Macau Names And CinemaCon Action (Stocks To Watch Podcast) 737 Max Issues Pose 3 Important Implications For Boeing Stock Stocks To Watch: Automakers, Macau Names And CinemaCon Action Corrections & Amplifications for the edition of March 30-31, 2019 US Market Indexes Close Higher for a Second Day The Barking Dow Dogs: IBM Tops Again By Yield, UnitedHealth Tops By Broker Targets For April Earlier this week, Boeing (BA) released to government officials and select pilots a software fix to its 737 Max 8 aircraft which suffered ...[...] New details of the crash of Ethiopian Airlines flight ET302 paint a picture of a catastrophic failure that quickly overwhelmed the flight crew. Investigators have preliminarily concluded that a Boeing automated flight-control feature activated before the plane nose-dived into the ground. Boeing's Tentative Agreement With The FAA Could Move Its Stock Higher General Dynamic's (GD) Abrams Tank System continues to be a top tank choice for the U.S. Army, National Guard and Marine Corps as well as several U.S. allies. United States : Northrop Grumman Ground System Provides Direction for the First Dual Interceptor Test for Ground-Based Midcourse Defense System Air Lease Corporation Announces Delivery of First of Five New Boeing        787-9 Aircraft with China Southern Airlines Atlas Air Worldwide Holdings, Inc. (NASDAQ:AAWW) Files An 8-K Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement U.S. lawsuit filed against Boeing over Ethiopian Airlines crash Directed-energy and Military Lasers Market to Grow at Humongous Growth of CAGR to 2025 How Boeing's 737 MAX failed United States : Boeing holds test flights for 737 Max fix: sources Boeing (NYSE:BA) has coverage initiated with a Buy ➝ Buy rating Boeing to Release First-Quarter Results on April 24 Southwest Shares Grounded Aircraft Tires Market 2018-2026 | Size, Share and Forecast | Credence Research Small Drones Market Achieved Significant CAGR Growth by Global Trends, Size, Growth Rate by 2028 Un Boeing 737 Max 8 sin pasajeros aterriza de emergencia en Orlando Un Boeing 737 Max 8 sin pasajeros aterriza de emergencia en Orlando Aircraft Leasing Market 2019-2023 Classification, Application, Industry Chain Overview, SWOT Analysis and Competitive Landscape By AerCap, Air Lease, Aviation Capital, Boeing, SAAB and ILFC More Electric Aircraft Market Growth has Attributed To Aviation Sector Expansion| Global Industry Overview By Size, Share, Trends, Segments and Regional Trends With Competitive Landscape Through 2023 Directed Energy Weapons Market Outlook 2019-2023: Key Vendors, Growth Factors and Market Share Forecast Offered In Latest Report Dow Movers: MCD, BA Satellite Manufacturing and Launch Market Segmentation, Parameters and Prospects 2019 to 2025 Market Research Report Nano Drone Market to Witness Huge Growth by 2025 | Leading Players- Parrot SA, 3D Robotics, Microdrones Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.