A technology company in northern Finland's city of Oulu has developed an infrared camera that is able to identify black plastic for recycling for the first time. The mid-wavelength infrared (MWIR) camera is the product of tech firm Specim, which develops robotics and spectrographs, mainly for export. "Black ABS [acrylonitrile butadiene styrene] plastic accounts for about half of all plastic materials," he said. "But it is actually very recyclable." The problem is that normal near infrared (NIR) sensors at recycling plants are unable to detect the black pigment, so black plastics usually go unrecycled worldwide and contribute to climate change. Only one MWIR spectrum camera is currently in use in Finland. Specim exports 96 percent of its products, to countries including China, India and the United States. So far, however, no other companies in Finland appear prepared to begin using recycling systems and technologies even though recycled plastic is far cheaper than new, virgin plastic, according to Herrala. "Finland is a complete backwater when it comes to recycling, even though there is a lot of know-how. There needs to be more systems in place to ensure that plastic is recycled, not just incinerated as fuel," he said. Investment company Finnish Industry Investment Ltd. announced in February that it would be giving out some 75 million euros to circular economy initiatives such as recycling plastics. Before 2016 all household plastic in Finland was either burned or thrown into landfills. However, in that year the government mandated the separate collection of plastic waste for recycling. Industrial black plastic is difficult to recycle. Infrared technology developed in Finland may help to change that. Espoo and Helsinki have launched the summer bicycle season – while Turku has successfully run them all winter. Finland's President Sauli Niinistö is heading to St Petersburg, Russia next Tuesday. An Yle investigative report has found alleged links between a Finnish Islamic leader and an Isis combatant. Overall traffic fatalities are trending downwards, but young men were three times more likely to die on Finnish roads than the rest of the population.