Advertisement In a statement to Gizmodo, American Airlines, one of the three U.S.-based carriers that fly the planes, said that it was informed by the FAA earlier today “that based on new information, they are grounding the United States Boeing 737 MAX fleet out of an abundance of caution.” From American Airlines: American Airlines has 24 aircraft affected by this directive. We appreciate the FAA’s partnership, and will continue to work closely with them, the Department of Transportation, National Transportation Safety Board and other regulatory authorities, as well as our aircraft and engine manufacturers. Our teams will make every effort to rebook customers as quickly as possible, and we apologize for any inconvenience. Advertisement Trump added that all airlines have been notified and that they “are agreeing with this” decision to ground the planes. It could not immediately be determined whether the airlines actually agree with the decision. Advertisement Investigators are still investigating the cause of Sunday’s crash, but the crash in October may have been related to automation in the aircraft that forced the nose of the plane down unnecessarily. Officially, it’s not yet clear that Sunday’s crash had anything to do with automation, but this decision by both the United States and Canada sure makes that seem more likely. China, Indonesia, Australia, and Malaysia were among some of the first countries to ground the 737 Max before other countries in Europe followed suit. Advertisement Boeing continues to have full confidence in the safety of the 737 MAX. However, after consultation with the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the U.S. National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB), and aviation authorities and its customers around the world, Boeing has determined — out of an abundance of caution and in order to reassure the flying public of the aircraft’s safety — to recommend to the FAA the temporary suspension of operations of the entire global fleet of 371 737 MAX aircraft. “On behalf of the entire Boeing team, we extend our deepest sympathies to the families and loved ones of those who have lost their lives in these two tragic accidents,” said Dennis Muilenburg, president, CEO, Chairman of The Boeing Company. “We are supporting this proactive step out of an abundance of caution. Safety is a core value at Boeing for as long as we have been building airplanes; and it always will be. There is no greater priority for our company and our industry. We are doing everything we can to understand the cause of the accidents in partnership with the investigators, deploy safety enhancements and help ensure this does not happen again.” Boeing makes this recommendation and supports the decision by the FAA. Advertisement Matt Novak is the editor of Gizmodo's Paleofuture blog