Advertisement Supported by Let us help you start your day. Good morning. The British Parliament failed to reach a majority on any of the Brexit alternatives that were brought to a vote on Wednesday. Before a meeting with more than 200 pilots and airline executives at its factory in Renton, Wash., Boeing for the first time publicly laid out its proposed updates to the software, as well as other changes to the 737 Max that it hopes will get the plane flying again. On the same day, the company faced new scrutiny on Capitol Hill as lawmakers asked F.A.A. regulators about oversight of the aviation industry, including how the 737 Max 8 was certified — a process that regulators heavily delegated to Boeing. “Clearly, confidence in F.A.A. as the gold standard for aviation safety has been shaken,” said Calvin Scovel, the Transportation Department’s inspector general. “India stands tall as a space power!” Mr. Modi wrote on Twitter shortly after the announcement. The feat — which means India could blind another country by taking out its communication and surveillance satellites — accelerates India’s space race with China and destabilizes its uneasy balance of power with Pakistan. Trade negotiations between the world’s two largest economies have dragged on for more than a year, with one particular sticking point: an enforcement mechanism that would let the U.S. unilaterally impose tariffs if China reneges on the deal. “Every schoolchild in China and every educated Chinese person knows about the ‘century of humiliation,’” a historian said. Tips for a more fulfilling life. The hero visits a parallel world and prevents the deaths of his parents, the cataclysmic event that makes Bruce Wayne become Batman. (Parallel earths were a favorite of your Back Story writer, because they imagined so many different paths for DC’s heroes.) The story’s epilogue is genius. The other-Bruce is changed. While our Batman was born of grief, guilt or vengeance, this one knows a tragedy was averted and is driven by awe, mystery and gratitude. Advertisement