As of early Monday morning, no major U.S.-based airlines have halted flights of their Max-8 aircraft. Advertisement Advertisement Boeing’s 737 is the company’s most popular jet around the world, and U.S.-based airlines have not announced any plans to ground the newest model of the 737, the Max-8. Delta and United told Gizmodo they do not operate any Max-8 aircraft, although United Airlines said it currently has 14 of the Max-9 model in its fleet. American Airlines, which says it currently has 24 Boeing 737 Max-8 planes in operation, told Gizmodo over email that it has “full confidence in the aircraft and our crew members.” “American Airlines extends our condolences to the families and friends of those on board Ethiopian Airlines flight 302. At this time there are no facts on the cause of the accident other than news reports,” a spokesperson from American’s media relations office told Gizmodo. Advertisement Southwest told Gizmodo that it currently operates a fleet of 34 Max—8 aircraft and does not currently have plans to ground them. “Our heart goes out to the families and loved ones of the passengers and Employees on Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302,” a spokesperson said in an email, adding: “We remain confident in the safety and airworthiness of our fleet of more than 750 Boeing aircraft.” Alaska Airlines has not yet responded to our request for comment. Advertisement Australian TV media reported this morning that a Boeing software update would soon be sent to carriers, but Gizmodo could not independently verify that claim. Boeing provided this statement to Gizmodo: We have engaged our customers and regulators on concerns they may have - and would refer you to them to discuss their operations and decisions. Safety is our number one priority and we are taking every measure to fully understand all aspects of this accident, working closely with the investigating team and all regulatory authorities involved. The investigation is in its early stages, but at this point, based on the information available, we do not have any basis to issue new guidance to operators. [...] Boeing is deeply saddened to learn of the passing of the passengers and crew on Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302, a 737 MAX 8 airplane. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the families and loved ones of the passengers and crew on board and stand ready to support the Ethiopian Airlines team. A Boeing technical team will be travelling to the crash site to provide technical assistance under the direction of the Ethiopia Accident Investigation Bureau and U.S. National Transportation Safety Board. Advertisement American-based carriers are waiting to potentially ground any of their Max-8 aircraft as well, by broadly gesturing at the fact that they haven’t received any warnings to do so. “We continue to work closely with Boeing, FAA and NTSB. We have not made any changes to our current flight schedule,” a spokesperson for American told Gizmodo over email. Advertisement Advertisement Matt Novak is the editor of Gizmodo's Paleofuture blog