Advertisement Supported by Let us help you start your day. Good morning. The tests simulated a single sensor failing, which triggered software designed to help prevent a stall. To keep the plane from going into an unrecoverable nosedive in less than a minute, the pilots had to make a series of rapid-fire control changes. The pilots in the tests succeeded, but they had a good understanding of how the system worked. In the Lion Air crash, pilots who had not been alerted to the system tried more than two dozen times to override the plane’s automated response. At least 600,000 people have been displaced, water and food are in short supply, and the first cases of cholera are being reported by the Red Cross. Death tolls are uncertain, and the extent of the storm’s damage is still emerging. In Mozambique, which was especially hard hit, the government estimates that at least 400 people have died. “When you start wars of aggression, you lose territory, do not come and claim it afterwards. It belongs to us,” he said. “Everyone says you can’t hold an occupied territory, but this proves you can. If occupied in a defensive war, then it’s ours.” The remarks will most likely sway right-wing Israelis in general elections in two weeks. It could also pave the way for the annexation of parts of the occupied West Bank. A poll in Israel found that 42 percent of voters support the annexation of parts of the West Bank, even those who support a two-state solution with Palestine. One of China’s most prestigious universities started an investigation into a law professor who published a series of essays warning of heavy-handed repression under President Xi Jinping. Tips for a more fulfilling life. “Boeing” is synonymous with airplanes — though maybe it should be spelled Böing. “Convinced that there was a definite future in aviation, I became interested in the construction as well as the flying of aircraft,” he once told an interviewer. That interest eventually led to the Boeing Airplane Company, which initially focused on military planes but has long been known for its commercial aircraft. Mr. Boeing left his namesake company in 1934 to pursue work in other industries, including lumber, real estate, horse breeding and livestock farming, though he continued consulting for Boeing for the rest of his life. Zach Wichter wrote today’s Back Story. A photograph in an earlier version of this briefing was published in error. The photograph was of linguine, not gnocchi. An earlier version of this briefing misstated an early name for the Boeing company. It was the Boeing Airplane, not Aircraft, Company. The briefing also misstated the year in which William Boeing started flying. It was around 1915, not around 1910. Advertisement