Thoughts on Internet startups, SaaS and early-stage investing from Christoph Janz @ Point Nine Capital. Great post Christoph! The numbers put many things into perspective. I wonder how many software companies targeting small businesses have reached the 100k customers mark. That would imply reaching 0,05% of all businesses globally. It may seem like not much, but it is harder than it sounds. It would be great to see a brake up of all the software IPOs and how they fit into each category. My guess would be that most of the IPOd companies are hunting elephants. grubhub is a rabbit-deer-mouse hybird. It's ARRA is about $5000. They market to consumers and take a commision. 100 * $1M, which is more along the lines of Veeva. Great Blog Post!  When scaling a market, the trick is to get the percentage of the market who will actually but correct. Do yo have any metrics which can help predict this? For instance is there are 100,000 potential companies in your market and a SaaS company has x% market penetration do you guess 1% or 10% of the market as customers when projecting a business? A couple others that are slight variations of your concepts are: The whale: 100 * $1M customers (Palantir??). And the other that I can think of is a simultaneous blend of enterprise/consumer pricing models. (Google/Facebook). Difficult question, also because you will likely expand your TAM over time. Peter Thiel argues that you should start with a *small* market, dominate it, then move into adjacent markets. Spot on. Maybe you could add marketplaces in "hunting mice" Thanks, great post. I would like to challenge your thoughts about the rabbit category. At 675 usd CPA I think it is possible, in some circumstances, to have an inside sales team. The math is like this: at 5k/month a sales rep you need a productivity of around 8 closures per rep per month. They key is in actually selling paid subscriptions right away, the beauty of Saas (if you are confident about the quality of the product) is that it makes it a relatively low risk decision to jump on board. At cases, you could even offer a money back guarantee for the first couple of months. The variable obviously is retention but i obviously assume a setting where the 2.5% monthly churn you estimate is achieved. What do you think? Thanks, Stefano! It's a good question, and one that I'm thinking about a lot - how low can you go, can you make an inside sales machine work at much lower ARPAs. In your calculation, is the idea that the inside sales people generate their leads themselves (presumably by cold emailing/calling) or that leads are generated via marketing? Great post! Thanks for that! Great post and interesting discussion! As a SAAS Southern Europe startup I'm exeperiencing Stefano's metrics, in which a sales rep is able to close 7 - 8 new paying accounts per month (no free trial) and with an ARPA of $1.2k. In fact I believe it's possible to get the CAC as low as $500 with an efficient inside sales team. However I wonder if this could be obtained in more expensive markets such as UK, Germany or US or how different would it be? What do you think? Thanks and keep it up Christopher - I'd absolutely love you if you did KPIs for each of the above models. Your SaaS (Rabbit) KPI charts are great. -Thanks in advance ;-) zvonkop.tk Thanks Clarence! Good idea, I'll look into this when I get a chance. I of course want to be loved by you. :-) great post. thank you.  http://globalcatalog.com/ Should probably add "whale" or "brachiosaurus". :) Agree, I don't know too many $100M rabbit hunters (Constant Contact, MailChimp, SurveyMonkey?). There are more rabbit hunters than I can think of right now! Almost every SEO SaaS falls into this category. Even now. Who's a good search contender today? Bing? Gmail The hardest parts are getting those customers and keeping them. When you are high functioning like me you can do almost anything in IT, but lack people and social skills. People and social skills are needed to market and use public relations to get those customers and you have to emotionally connect to them. You have to keep them satisfied or else they leave and go somewhere else. You have to let them know what needs your products and services meet, you have to find ways your product and services save them money and time. This is why 9 out of 10 startups fail, can't connect to people enough to get them as customers. In the case of SpaceX and other space ship companies they would hunt whales like NASA and ESA in order to use their rockets to launch satellites and take astronauts to the ISS. Maybe find other governments who want to launch satellites but lack the technology to make a good rocket. Amazon, eBay, any website that lets rabbits sell items on their website and then hit them with service fees. Some are even VPS hosting companies that sell VPS hosts to rabbits for their websites. Rabbits cannot afford to run their own bare metal web server and always go to the cloud or VPS for services because it is cheaper. Another one is Github that lets Rabbits pay for private source code tracking that only their employees can access. Google has stated their main search competitor is Amazon. http://searchengineland.com/googles-eric-schmidts-berlin-speech-biggest-search-competitor-amazon-205761 Thanks Jeff! Yes, indeed. I'll do a follow-up post soon with some additional types of animals. :) http://theonemilliondollar.blogspot.com/ Good post! Your blog is very informative. Last month I contacted with Adtrafficking.Net. They provided me quality Ad trafficking services. I increased my business with the help of this agency. Thanks for sharing with us such a wonderful blog. Mobile games will be hunting flies I think, being viral helped Temple Run and Farmville not a long time ago. I think there still is space to catch 10 Million flies in the mobile gaming market :) A well conceived article about building your business and giving novice entrepreneurs a chance to think about earning millions of dollars in revenue. The reference given to animals here in accordance to customers makes it a bit weird but otherwise the whole post is quite informative and interactive to read. Enter your email address: