The FAA says that Boeing will present its final software fix for the 737 MAX in the coming weeks. The fix will then need to be approved by the FAA before installation on the grounded airplanes. Boeing shares are trading higher today but Senator Schumer says he wants to airplane maker removed from the FAA's rule making committee. Yahoo Finance's Alexis Keenan reports and Adam Shapiro, Julie Hyman, Andy Serwer, and Brian Cheung further discuss. MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  was up 0.2 percent, hitting a seven-month high  after rallying more than one percent in the previous session.  Australian shares gained half a percent and Japan's  Nikkei advanced 0.3 percent, extending its gains for a  third session.  Investors cheered U.S. data overnight showing improvements  in manufacturing activity last month and construction spending  for February, which overshadowed an unexpected drop in retail  sales. WASHINGTON/SEATTLE (Reuters) - Boeing Co said on Monday it planned to submit a proposed software enhancement package for the grounded 737 MAX in "the coming weeks" after the company had previously said it planned to deliver the fix for government approval by last week.  The company on Monday confirmed a statement from the Federal Aviation Administration that it would submit the upgrade later than previously announced.  "We are working to demonstrate that we have identified and appropriately addressed all certification requirements and will be submitting for FAA review once completed in the coming weeks," Boeing said. said Monday it needs extra time -- likely a few more weeks -- to complete a software fix for its 737 MAX jets.  The news comes weeks after a fatal airline crash in Ethiopia -- the second in a half year of a 737 MAX jet.  "Safety is our first priority, and we will take a thorough and methodical approach to the development and testing of the update to ensure we take the time to get it right," Boeing said in a statement provided to TheStreet. The following are the top stories in the Financial Times. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. Headlines Brexit alternatives again fall short in parliament https://on.ft.com/2YKXRvV ... Asia shares extended their rally  on Tuesday as factory activity surveys from China and the United  States boosted investor confidence, triggering the largest  one-day sell-off in the U.S. Treasury market in nearly three  months.  MSCI's broadest index of Asia-Pacific shares outside Japan  rose 0.3 percent to a seven-month high after  rallying more than one percent in the previous session.  Australian shares gained 0.8 percent while Japan's  Nikkei advanced 0.4 percent, extending its gains for a  third session. Boeing and U.S. aviation regulators say the company needs more time to finish changes in a flight-control system suspected of playing a role in two deadly crashes.  Boeing was expected to complete the work last week, but FAA spokesman Greg Martin said the company needs more time to make sure it has identified and addressed all issues.  Chicago-based Boeing offered the same timetable as it works to convince regulators that it can fix software on the planes. “Upon receipt, the FAA will subject Boeing’s completed submission to a rigorous safety review,” the agency said. The Institute for Supply Management, an association of purchasing managers, says that its manufacturing index rose to 55.3 last month, up from 54.2 in February.  LONDON (AP) -- Britain's Parliament is seeking a way out of the country's Brexit morass, voting on a series of measures that could soften or reverse the U.K.'s departure from the European Union.  LONDON (AP) -- Discount airline easyJet has warned that the U.K.'s pending withdrawal from the European Union is causing travelers to hold back on booking tickets. The Federal Aviation Administration said Monday it expects Boeing to submit the final software fix for the 737 Max jet "over the coming weeks." NEW YORK, April 01, 2019 -- Faruqi & Faruqi, LLP, a leading national securities law firm, is investigating potential claims against The Boeing Company ("Boeing" or the. Boeing 737 Max needs additional work, the FAA said Monday, adding that a software fix is expected "over the coming weeks." Among the Dow Jones stocks, Apple and Intel are among the top stocks to buy and watch in April 2019. The U.S. Federal Aviation Administrationsaid Monday it expects to get Boeing Co.'s  software fix "over the coming weeks" for its approval, saying that Boeing needs more time for "additional work" as a result of the ongoing review on the 737 Max flight control systems. "Upon receipt, the FAA will subject Boeing's completed submission to a rigorous safety review," the agency said. "The FAA will not approve the software for installation until the agency is satisfied with the submission," it said. The 737 Max has been grounded worldwide after it was in two fatal accidents in less than five months. Shares of Boeing ended 2.7% higher on Monday, and traded 0.5% lower in the extended session. The stock has gained 19% in the past 12 months, compared with a 9% rise for the S&P 500 index. Cornerstone Macro's Carter Worth on stocks that have gone too far, too fast. With CNBC's Bob Pisani and Melissa Lee and the Fast Money traders, Tim Seymour, Brian Kelly, Steve Grasso and Guy Adami. CNBC's Phil LeBeau reports on the FAA's latest statement regarding Boeing's software fix for its 737 Max planes.