Advertisement As part of its internal review process, Boeing determined that more work was needed on the update before it was submitted to the F.A.A. By David Gelles The planes have been grounded worldwide since mid-March, and airlines may be forced to park their Max jets longer than they had expected. Plus, Apple makes TV shows now, and China trade talks pick up steam. By Charlotte Cowles Here’s why a system designed to stabilize the 737 Max may have caused two deadly crashes in five months. By Mika Gröndahl, Keith Collins and James Glanz As in the Lion Air disaster, investigators believe an automated system on the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight was set off by erroneous readings. By James Glanz, Thomas Kaplan and Jack Nicas The changes would give pilots more control and make it less likely that faulty data can set off a reaction, two issues at the center of investigations into two crashes. By David Gelles and Thomas Kaplan In remarks about two deadly crashes involving Boeing jets, Mike Sinnett, vice president of product strategy, said the company will do “everything that we can do to ensure that accidents like these never happen again.” By Reuters While congressional hearings examined Boeing’s cozy relationship with regulators, the company said it was close to completing a software fix for the 737 Max models. By Thomas Kaplan, David Gelles, Tiffany Hsu and Zach Wichter Regulators testify before Senate subcommittees today on Boeing safety, while the plane maker seeks to ease the concerns of airline executives. Public comments from the company have been relatively sparse while an outcry grew after a second deadly crash involving one of its planes. By David Gelles The plane, the same type that crashed in Ethiopia this month and in Indonesia in October, reported engine problems. By Mihir Zaveri and Jack Nicas Long before the grounding of the 737 Max, the F.A.A. faced scrutiny over its longtime practice of giving manufacturers the authority to help certify their own planes. By Thomas Kaplan They had just moments to override an automated system and avert disaster in simulations of problems with the Lion Air plane that crashed last fall. By Jack Nicas, James Glanz and David Gelles Pilots from five airlines gathered in Renton, Wash., on Saturday to review proposed changes to the software of the 737 Max, two of which have crashed. By David Gelles Caught short by its rival’s gains, Boeing raced to update its workhorse jet rather than design a new one. Workers describe a hectic project, but say they hadn’t felt safety was compromised. By David Gelles, Natalie Kitroeff, Jack Nicas and Rebecca R. Ruiz Boeing has come under intense scrutiny after its best-selling 737 Max jet was involved in two deadly crashes in five months. By Zach Wichter Here’s your weekly smorgasbord of all the tech and business news you missed, plus what you should know heading into Monday. By Charlotte Cowles A reader criticizes executives at Boeing and the airlines that bought its 737 Max planes after reading an article about optional safety features. Software looks to be at the heart of the recent Ethiopian Airlines crash. Safety approval of such systems will only get harder as technology advances. By Jamie Condliffe The request from the carrier, Garuda Indonesia, is the first publicly confirmed attempt to cancel a Max 8 order since the deadly crash in Ethiopia this month. By Muktita Suhartono and Amie Tsang As part of its internal review process, Boeing determined that more work was needed on the update before it was submitted to the F.A.A. By David Gelles The planes have been grounded worldwide since mid-March, and airlines may be forced to park their Max jets longer than they had expected. Plus, Apple makes TV shows now, and China trade talks pick up steam. By Charlotte Cowles Here’s why a system designed to stabilize the 737 Max may have caused two deadly crashes in five months. By Mika Gröndahl, Keith Collins and James Glanz As in the Lion Air disaster, investigators believe an automated system on the doomed Ethiopian Airlines flight was set off by erroneous readings. By James Glanz, Thomas Kaplan and Jack Nicas The changes would give pilots more control and make it less likely that faulty data can set off a reaction, two issues at the center of investigations into two crashes. By David Gelles and Thomas Kaplan In remarks about two deadly crashes involving Boeing jets, Mike Sinnett, vice president of product strategy, said the company will do “everything that we can do to ensure that accidents like these never happen again.” By Reuters While congressional hearings examined Boeing’s cozy relationship with regulators, the company said it was close to completing a software fix for the 737 Max models. By Thomas Kaplan, David Gelles, Tiffany Hsu and Zach Wichter Regulators testify before Senate subcommittees today on Boeing safety, while the plane maker seeks to ease the concerns of airline executives. Public comments from the company have been relatively sparse while an outcry grew after a second deadly crash involving one of its planes. By David Gelles The plane, the same type that crashed in Ethiopia this month and in Indonesia in October, reported engine problems. By Mihir Zaveri and Jack Nicas Long before the grounding of the 737 Max, the F.A.A. faced scrutiny over its longtime practice of giving manufacturers the authority to help certify their own planes. By Thomas Kaplan They had just moments to override an automated system and avert disaster in simulations of problems with the Lion Air plane that crashed last fall. By Jack Nicas, James Glanz and David Gelles Pilots from five airlines gathered in Renton, Wash., on Saturday to review proposed changes to the software of the 737 Max, two of which have crashed. By David Gelles Caught short by its rival’s gains, Boeing raced to update its workhorse jet rather than design a new one. Workers describe a hectic project, but say they hadn’t felt safety was compromised. By David Gelles, Natalie Kitroeff, Jack Nicas and Rebecca R. Ruiz Boeing has come under intense scrutiny after its best-selling 737 Max jet was involved in two deadly crashes in five months. By Zach Wichter Here’s your weekly smorgasbord of all the tech and business news you missed, plus what you should know heading into Monday. By Charlotte Cowles A reader criticizes executives at Boeing and the airlines that bought its 737 Max planes after reading an article about optional safety features. Software looks to be at the heart of the recent Ethiopian Airlines crash. Safety approval of such systems will only get harder as technology advances. By Jamie Condliffe The request from the carrier, Garuda Indonesia, is the first publicly confirmed attempt to cancel a Max 8 order since the deadly crash in Ethiopia this month. By Muktita Suhartono and Amie Tsang Go to Home Page »