Alan Turing (1912–1954) never described himself as a philosopher, but his 1950 paper “Computing Machinery and Intelligence” is one of the most frequently cited in modern philosophical literature. It gave a fresh approach to the traditional mind-body problem, by relating it to the mathematical concept of computability he himself had introduced in his 1936–7 paper “On computable numbers, with an application to the Entscheidungsproblem.” His work can be regarded as the foundation of computer science and of the artificial intelligence program. Alan Turing's short and extraordinary life has attracted wide interest. It has inspired his mother's memoir (E. S. Turing 1959), a detailed biography (Hodges 1983), a play and television film (Whitemore 1986), and various other works of fiction and art. There are many reasons for this interest, but one is that in every sphere of his life and work he made unexpected connections between apparently unrelated areas. His central contribution to science and philosophy came through his treating the subject of symbolic logic as a new branch of applied mathematics, giving it a physical and engineering content. Unwilling or unable to remain within any standard role or department of thought, Alan Turing continued a life full of incongruity. Though a shy, boyish, man, he had a pivotal role in world history through his role in Second World War cryptology. Though the founder of the dominant technology of the twentieth century, he variously impressed, charmed or disturbed people with his unworldly innocence and his dislike of moral or intellectual compromise. Alan Mathison Turing was born in London, 23 June 1912, to upper-middle-class British parents. His schooling was of a traditional kind, dominated by the British imperial system, but from earliest life his fascination with the scientific impulse—expressed by him as finding the ‘commonest in nature’—found him at odds with authority. His scepticism, and disrespect for worldly values, were never tamed and became ever more confidently eccentric. His moody humour swung between gloom and vivacity. His life was also notable as that of a gay man with strong emotions and a growing insistence on his identity. His first true home was at King's College, Cambridge University, noted for its progressive intellectual life centred on J. M. Keynes. Turing studied mathematics with increasing distinction and was elected a Fellow of the college in 1935. This appointment was followed by a remarkable and sudden début in an area where he was an unknown figure: that of mathematical logic. The paper “On Computable Numbers…” (Turing 1936–7) was his first and perhaps greatest triumph. It gave a definition of computation and an absolute limitation on what computation could achieve, which makes it the founding work of modern computer science. It led him to Princeton for more advanced work in logic and other branches of mathematics. He had the opportunity to remain in the United States, but chose to return to Britain in 1938, and was immediately recruited for the British communications war. From 1939 to 1945 Turing was almost totally engaged in the mastery of the German enciphering machine, Enigma, and other cryptological investigations at now-famous Bletchley Park, the British government's wartime communications headquarters. Turing made a unique logical contribution to the decryption of the Enigma and became the chief scientific figure, with a particular responsibility for reading the U-boat communications. As such he became a top-level figure in Anglo-American liaison, and also gained exposure to the most advanced electronic technology of the day. Combining his ideas from mathematical logic, his experience in cryptology, and some practical electronic knowledge, his ambition, at the end of the war in Europe, was to create an electronic computer in the full modern sense. His plans, commissioned by the National Physical Laboratory, London, were overshadowed by the more powerfully supported American projects. Turing also laboured under the disadvantage that his wartime achievements remained totally secret. His ideas led the field in 1946, but this was little recognised. Frustrated in his work, he emerged as a powerful marathon runner, and almost qualified for the British team in the 1948 Olympic games. Turing's motivations were scientific rather than industrial or commercial, and he soon returned to the theoretical limitations of computation, this time focussing on the comparison of the power of computation and the power of the human brain. His contention was that the computer, when properly programmed, could rival the brain. It founded the ‘Artificial Intelligence’ program of coming decades. In 1948 he moved to Manchester University, where he partly fulfilled the expectations placed upon him to plan software for the pioneer computer development there, but still remained a free-ranging thinker. It was here that his famous 1950 paper, “Computing Machinery and Intelligence,” (Turing 1950b) was written. In 1951 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society for his 1936 achievement, yet at the same time he was striking into entirely new territory with a mathematical theory of biological morphogenesis (Turing 1952). This work was interrupted by Alan Turing's arrest in February 1952 for his sexual affair with a young Manchester man, and he was obliged, to escape imprisonment, to undergo the injection of oestrogen intended to negate his sexual drive. He was disqualified from continuing secret cryptological work. His general libertarian attitude was enhanced rather than suppressed by the criminal trial, and his intellectual individuality also remained as lively as ever. While remaining formally a Reader in the Theory of Computing, he not only embarked on more ambitious applications of his biological theory, but advanced new ideas for fundamental physics. For this reason his death, on 7 June 1954, at his home in Wilmslow, Cheshire, came as a general surprise. In hindsight it is obvious that Turing's unique status in Anglo-American secret communication work meant that there were pressures on him of which his contemporaries were unaware; there was certainly another ‘security’ conflict with government in 1953 (Hodges 1983, p. 483). Some commentators, e.g. Dawson (1985), have argued that assassination should not be ruled out. But he had spoken of suicide, and his death, which was by cyanide poisoning, was most likely by his own hand, contrived so as to allow those who wished to do so to believe it a result of his penchant for chemistry experiments. The symbolism of its dramatic element—a partly eaten apple—has continued to haunt the intellectual Eden from which Alan Turing was expelled. Alan Turing drew much between 1928 and 1933 from the work of the mathematical physicist and populariser A. S. Eddington, from J. von Neumann's account of the foundations of quantum mechanics, and then from Bertrand Russell's mathematical logic. Meanwhile, his lasting fascination with the problems of mind and matter was heightened by emotional elements in his own life (Hodges 1983, p. 63). In 1934 he graduated with an outstanding degree in mathematics from Cambridge University, followed by a successful dissertation in probability theory which won him a Fellowship of King's College, Cambridge, in 1935. This was the background to his learning, also in 1935, of the problem which was to make his name. It was from the lectures of the topologist M. H. A. (Max) Newman in that year that he learnt of Gödel's 1931 proof of the formal incompleteness of logical systems rich enough to include arithmetic, and of the outstanding problem in the foundations of mathematics as posed by Hilbert: the “Entscheidungsproblem” (decision problem). Was there a method by which it could be decided, for any given mathematical proposition, whether or not it was provable? The principal difficulty of this question lay in giving an unassailably correct and general definition of what was meant by such expressions as ‘definite method’ or ‘effective procedure.’ Turing worked on this alone for a year until April 1936; independence and isolation was to be both his strength, in formulating original ideas, and his weakness, when it came to promoting and implementing them. To summarise: Turing found, and justified on very general and far-reaching grounds, a precise mathematical formulation of the conception of a general process or method. His work, as presented to Newman in April 1936, argued that his formulation of ‘computability’ encompassed ‘the possible processes which can be carried out in computing a number.’ (Turing 1936, p. 232). This opened up new fields of discovery both in practical computation, and in the discussion of human mental processes. However, although Turing had worked as what Newman called ‘a confirmed solitary’ (Hodges 1983, p 113), he soon learned that he was not alone in what Gandy (1988) has called ‘the confluence of ideas in 1936.’ The tape never holds more than a finite number of marked squares at any point in a computation. Thus it can be thought of as being finite, but always capable of further extension as required. Obviously this unbounded extendibility is unphysical, but the definition is still of practical use: it means that anything done on a finite tape, however large, is computable. (Turing himself took such a finitistic approach when explaining the practical relevance of computability in his 1950 paper.) One aspect of Turing's formulation, however, involves absolute finiteness: the table of behaviour of a Turing machine must be finite, since Turing allows only a finite number of ‘configurations’ of a Turing machine, and only a finite repertoire of symbols which can be marked on the tape. This is essentially equivalent to allowing only computer programs with finite lengths of code. True physics is quantum-mechanical, and this implies a different idea of matter and action from Turing's purely classical picture. It is perhaps odd that Turing did not point this out in this period, since he was well versed in quantum physics. Instead, the analysis and practical development of quantum computing was left to the 1980s. Quantum computation, using the evolution of wave-functions rather than classical machine states, is the most important way in which Turing machine model has been challenged. The standard formulation of quantum computing (Deutsch 1985, following Feynman 1982) does not predict anything beyond computable effects, although within the realm of the computable, quantum computations may be very much more efficient than classical computations. It is possible that a deeper understanding of quantum mechanical physics may further change the picture of what can be physically ‘done.’ In Turing's presentation, intuition is in practice present in every part of a mathematician's thought, but when mathematical proof is formalised, intuition has an explicit manifestation in those steps where the mathematician sees the truth of a formally unprovable statement. Turing did not offer any suggestion as to what he considered the brain was physically doing in a moment of such ‘intuition’; indeed the word ‘brain’ did not appear in his writing in this era. This question is of interest because of the views of Penrose (1989, 1990, 1994, 1996) on just this issue: Penrose holds that the ability of the mind to see formally unprovable truths shows that there must be uncomputable physical operations in the brain. It should be noted that there is widespread disagreement about whether the human mind is really seeing the truth of a Gödel sentence; see for instance the discussion in (Penrose 1990) and the reviews following it. However Turing's writing at this period accepted without criticism the concept of intuitive recognition of the truth. It was also at this period that Turing met Wittgenstein, and there is a full record of their 1939 discussions on the foundations of mathematics in (Diamond 1976). To the disappointment of many, there is no record of any discussions between them, verbal or written, on the problem of Mind. In 1939 Turing's various energetic investigations were broken off for war work. This did, however, have the positive feature of leading Turing to turn his universal machine into the practical form of the modern digital computer. When apprised in 1936 of Turing's idea for a universal machine, Turing's contemporary and friend, the economist David Champernowne, reacted by saying that such a thing was impractical; it would need ‘the Albert Hall.’ If built from relays as then employed in telephone exchanges, that might indeed have been so, and Turing made no attempt at it. However, in 1937 Turing did work with relays on a smaller machine with a special cryptological function (Hodges 1983, p. 138). World history then led Turing to his unique role in the Enigma problem, to his becoming the chief figure in the mechanisation of logical procedures, and to his being introduced to ever faster and more ambitious technology as the war continued. After 1942, Turing learnt that electronic components offered the speed, storage capacity and logical functions required to be effective as ‘tapes’ and instruction tables. So from 1945, Turing tried to use electronics to turn his universal machine into practical reality. Turing rapidly composed a detailed plan for a modern stored-program computer: that is, a computer in which data and instructions are stored and manipulated alike. Turing's ideas led the field, although his report of 1946 postdated von Neumann's more famous EDVAC report (von Neumann 1945). It can however be argued, as does Davis (2000), that von Neumann gained his fundamental insight into the computer through his pre-war familiarity with Turing's logical work. At the time, however, these basic principles were not much discussed. The difficulty of engineering the electronic hardware dominated everything. It therefore escaped observers that Turing was ahead of von Neumann and everyone else on the future of software, or as he called it, the ‘construction of instruction tables.’ Turing (1946) foresaw at once: The process of constructing instruction tables should be very fascinating. There need be no real danger of it ever becoming a drudge, for any processes that are quite mechanical may be turned over to the machine itself. These remarks, reflecting the universality of the computer, and its ability to manipulate its own instructions, correctly described the future trajectory of the computer industry. However, Turing had in mind something greater: ‘building a brain.’ The puzzling reference to ‘mistakes’ is made clear by a talk Turing gave a year later (Turing 1947), in which the issue of mistakes is linked to the issue of the significance of seeing the truth of formally unprovable statements. Turing's post-war view was that mathematicians make mistakes, and so do not in fact see the truth infallibly. Once the possibility of mistakes is admitted, Gödel's theorem become irrelevant. Mathematicians and computers alike apply computable processes to the problem of judging the correctness of assertions; both will therefore sometimes err, since seeing the truth is known not to be a computable operation, but there is no reason why the computer need do worse than the mathematician. This argument is still very much alive. For instance, Davis (2000) endorses Turing's view and attacks Penrose (1989, 1990, 1994, 1996) who argues against the significance of human error on the grounds of a Platonist account of mathematics. He suggested a range of ideas for systems which could be said to modify their own programs. These ideas included nets of logical components (‘unorganised machines’) whose properties could be ‘trained’ into a desired function. Thus, as expressed by (Ince 1989), he predicted neural networks. However, Turing's nets did not have the ‘layered’ structure of the neural networks that were to be developed from the 1950s onwards. By the expression ‘genetical or evolutionary search’, he also anticipated the ‘genetic algorithms’ which since the late 1980s have been developed as a less closely structured approach to self-modifying programs. Turing's proposals were not well developed in 1948, and at a time when electronic computers were only barely in operation, could not have been. Fresh attention to them has been drawn by Copeland and Proudfoot (1996), and they have now have been tried out (Teuscher 2001). Turing was not a mechanical thinker, or a stickler for convention; far from it. Of all people, he knew the nature of originality and individual independence. Even in tackling the U-boat Enigma problem, for instance, he declared that he did so because no-one else was looking at it and he could have it to himself. Far from being trained or organised into this problem, he took it on despite the prevailing wisdom in 1939 that it was too difficult to attempt. His arrival at a thesis of ‘machine intelligence’ was not the outcome of some dull or restricted mentality, or a lack of appreciation of individual human creativity. Turing relished the paradox of ‘Machine Intelligence’: an apparent contradiction in terms. It is likely that he was already savouring this theme in 1941, when he read a theological book by the author Dorothy Sayers (Sayers 1941). In (Turing 1948) he quoted from this work to illustrate his full awareness that in common parlance ‘mechanical’ was used to to mean ‘devoid of intelligence.’ Giving a date which no doubt had his highly sophisticated Enigma-breaking machines secretly in mind, he wrote that ‘up to 1940’ only very limited machinery had been used, and this ‘encouraged the belief that machinery was necessarily limited to extremely straightforward, possibly even to repetitious, jobs.’ His object was to dispel these connotations. In 1950, Turing wrote on the first page of his Manual for users of the Manchester University computer (Turing 1950a): This is, of course, just the 1936 universal Turing machine, now in electronic form. On the other hand, he also wrote in the more famous paper of that year (Turing 1950b, p. 460) The wit and drama of Turing's ‘imitation game’ has attracted more fame than his careful groundwork. Turing's argument was designed to bypass discussions of the nature of thought, mind, and consciousness, and to give a criterion in terms of external observation alone. His justification for this was that one only judges that other human beings are thinking by external observation, and he applied a principle of ‘fair play for machines’ to argue that the same should hold for machine intelligence. He dramatised this viewpoint by a thought-experiment (which nowadays can readily be tried out). A human being and a programmed computer compete to convince an impartial judge, using textual messages alone, as to which is the human being. If the computer wins, it must be credited with intelligence. Turing's imitation principle perhaps also assumes (like ‘intelligence tests’ of that epoch) too much of a shared language and culture for his imagined interrogations. Neither does it address the possibility that there may be kinds of thought, by animals or extra-terrestrial intelligences, which are not amenable to communication. A more positive feature of the paper lies in its constructive program for research, culminating in Turing's ideas for ‘learning machines’ and educating ‘child’ machines (Turing 1950b, p. 454). It is generally thought (e.g. in Dreyfus and Dreyfus 1990) that there was always an antagonism between programming and the ‘connectionist’ approach of neural networks. But Turing never expressed such a dichotomy, writing that both approaches should be tried. Donald Michie, the British AI research pioneer profoundly influenced by early discussions with Turing, has called this suggestion ‘Alan Turing's Buried Treasure’, in an allusion to a bizarre wartime episode in which Michie was himself involved (Hodges 1983, p. 345). The question is still highly pertinent. It is also curious that Turing's best-known paper should appear in a journal of philosophy, for it may well be said that Turing, always committed to materialist explanation, was not really a philosopher at all. Turing was a mathematician, and what he had to offer philosophy lay in illuminating its field with what had been discovered in mathematics and physics. In the 1950 paper this was surprisingly cursory, apart from his groundwork on the concept of computability. His emphasis on the sufficiency of the computable to explain the action of the mind was stated more as a hypothesis, even a manifesto, than argued in detail. Of his hypothesis he wrote (Turing 1950b, p. 442): Penrose (1994, p.21), probing into Turing's conjecture, has presented it as ‘Turing's thesis’ thus: The statement that all physical action is in effect computable goes beyond Turing's explicit words, but is a fair characterisation of the implicit assumptions behind the 1950 paper. Turing's consideration of ‘The Argument from Continuity in the Nervous System,’ in particular, simply asserts that the physical system of the brain can be approximated as closely as is desired by a computer program (Turing 1950b, p. 451). Certainly there is nothing in Turing's work in the 1945–50 period to contradict Penrose's interpretation. The more technical precursor papers (Turing 1947, 1948) include wide-ranging comments on physical processes, but make no reference to the possibility of physical effects being uncomputable. In particular, a section of (Turing 1948) is devoted to a general classification of ‘machines.’ The period between 1937 and 1948 had given Turing much more experience of actual machinery than he had in 1936, and his post-war remarks reflected this in a down-to-earth manner. Turing distinguished ‘controlling’ from ‘active’ machinery, the latter being illustrated by ‘a bulldozer’. Naturally it is the former—in modern terms ‘information-based machinery’—with which Turing's analysis is concerned. It is noteworthy that in 1948 as in 1936, despite his knowledge of physics, Turing made no mention of how quantum mechanics might affect the concept of ‘controlling’. His concept of ‘controlling’ remained entirely within the classical framework of the Turing machine (which he called a Logical Computing Machine in this paper.) Turing gave no hint that the discreteness of the Turing machine constituted a real limitation, or that the non-discrete processes of analog machines might be of any deep significance. From 1950 Turing worked on a new mathematical theory of morphogenesis, based on showing the consequences of non-linear equations for chemical reaction and diffusion (Turing 1952). He was a pioneer in using a computer for such work. Some writers have referred to this theory as founding Artificial Life (A-life), but this is a misleading description, apt only to the extent that the theory was intended, as Turing saw it, to counter the Argument from Design. A-life since the 1980s has concerned itself with using computers to explore the logical consequences of evolutionary theory without worrying about specific physiological forms. Morphogenesis is complementary, being concerned to show which physiological pathways are feasible for evolution to exploit. Turing's work was developed by others in the 1970s and is now regarded as central to this field. It may well be that Turing's interest in morphogenesis went back to a primordial childhood wonder at the appearance of plants and flowers. But in another late development, Turing went back to other stimuli of his youth. For in 1951 Turing did consider the problem, hitherto avoided, of setting computability in the context of quantum-mechanical physics. In a BBC radio talk of that year (Turing 1951) he discussed the basic groundwork of his 1950 paper, but this time dealing rather less certainly with the argument from Gödel's theorem, and this time also referring to the quantum-mechanical physics underlying the brain. Turing described the universal machine property, applying it to the brain, but said that its applicability required that the machine whose behaviour is to be imitated At Turing's death in June 1954, Gandy reported in a letter to Newman on what he knew of Turing's current work (Gandy 1954). He wrote of Turing having discussed a problem in understanding the reduction process, in the form of Turing's investigations take on added significance in view of the assertion of Penrose (1989, 1990, 1994, 1996) that the reduction process must involve something uncomputable. Probably Turing was aiming at the opposite idea, of finding a theory of the reduction process that would be predictive and computable, and so plug the gap in his hypothesis that the action of the brain is computable. However Turing and Penrose are alike in seeing this as an important question affecting the assumption that all mental action is computable; in this they both differ from the mainstream view in which the question is accorded little significance. Alan Turing's last postcards to Robin Gandy, in March 1954, headed ‘Messages from the Unseen World’ in allusion to Eddington, hinted at new ideas in the fundamental physics of relativity and particle physics (Hodges 1983, p. 512). They illustrate the wealth of ideas with which he was concerned at that last point in his life, but which apart from these hints are entirely lost. A review of such lost ideas is given in (Hodges 2004), as part of a larger volume on Turing's legacy (Teuscher 2004). It is a pity that Turing did not write more about his ethical philosophy and world outlook. As a student he was an admirer of Bernard Shaw's plays of ideas, and to friends would openly voice both the hilarities and frustrations of his many difficult situations. Yet the nearest he came to serious personal writing, apart from occasional comments in private letters, was in penning a short story about his 1952 crisis (Hodges 1983, p. 448). His last two years were particularly full of Shavian drama and Wildean irony. In one letter (to his friend Norman Routledge; the letter is now in the Turing Archive at King's College, Cambridge) he wrote: The syllogistic allusion to Socrates is unmistakeable, and his demise, with cyanide rather than hemlock, may have signalled something similar. A parallel figure in World War II, Robert Oppenheimer, suffered the loss of his reputation during the same week that Turing died. Both combined the purest scientific work and the most effective application of science in war. Alan Turing was even more directly on the receiving end of science, when his sexual mind was treated as a machine, against his protesting consciousness and will. But amidst all this human drama, he left little to say about what he really thought of himself and his relationship to the world of human events. Alan Turing did not fit easily with any of the intellectual movements of his time, aesthetic, technocratic or marxist. In the 1950s, commentators struggled to find discreet words to categorise him: as ‘a scientific Shelley,’ as possessing great ‘moral integrity’. Until the 1970s, the reality of his life was unmentionable. He is still hard to place within twentieth-century thought. He exalted the science that according to existentialists had robbed life of meaning. The most original figure, the most insistent on personal freedom, he held originality and will to be susceptible to mechanisation. The mind of Alan Turing continues to be an enigma. View this site from another server: Library of Congress Catalog Data: ISSN 1095-5054