Front page layout Site theme Sign up or login to join the discussions! Federal Communications Commission Chairman Ajit Pai has proposed a new spending cap on the FCC's Universal Service programs that deploy broadband to poor people and to rural and other underserved areas. O'Rielly said in a statement to Ars that he already voted to approve the proposal. Pai could get it passed 3-2 if he gets a yes vote from Brendan Carr, the other Republican in the FCC's three-member Republican majority. We asked Pai's office for details on his proposal, and we contacted Commissioner Carr's office about whether he supports the plan today. We'll update this story if we get any responses. "Adopting an overall spending cap for the Universal Service Fund, as proposed in the recent circulation item, is both overdue and incredibly needed," O'Rielly told Ars. "The commission must inject fiscal responsibility into the USF [Universal Service Fund] by establishing an upper boundary of how much we are willing to take from hardworking American consumers who support the program through higher fees on their phone bills." All four Universal Service programs are paid for by Americans through fees on their phone bills. Broadband services aren't subject to the same fees, even though Universal Service programs are now mainly for expanding broadband access. Pai's proposal suggests an overall cap on spending across the four Universal Service programs, an FCC official who is familiar with the proposal told Ars. But Pai's plan doesn't propose any meaningful changes to how Universal Service Fund surcharges are assessed to Americans, the official said. Pai's plan is a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (NPRM), one of the first steps in a rulemaking process. If approved, the NPRM would ask the public for comment on a series of questions related to Universal Service spending. After receiving comment, Pai would decide whether to seek a commission vote on a final proposal. Three of the four Universal Service programs already have caps, but Lifeline has a budget that can be exceeded instead of a strict cap. Pai's new proposal, in addition to proposing an overall Universal Service funding cap, encourages debate on the effectiveness of the Universal Service programs and asks the public how the FCC should prioritize spending in the event that a future spending cap is reached, the FCC official who talked to Ars said. The FCC's two Democratic commissioners, Jessica Rosenworcel and Geoffrey Starks, both criticized the plan in statements to Ars. "The FCC's proposal flies in the face of the agency's own rhetoric about bridging the digital divide," Rosenworcel said. "It threatens to cut off broadband in rural areas, limit high-speed Internet access in America's classrooms, shorten the reach of telemedicine nationwide, and foreclose opportunity for those who need it most." Starks said Pai's proposal "would necessarily pit hospitals, schools, libraries, students, patients, and millions of Americans who lack broadband—in both rural and urban areas—against one another for these funds." Because of the FCC's poor data, it isn't clear "who in this country has broadband and who does not," Starks continued. "This relentless desire to claim victory despite overwhelming evidence that much work remains to be done is counterproductive to good policymaking... Putting an arbitrary limit on the amount of money that we can spend at this stage is premature [and] runs counter to the goals and obligations imposed on us by Congress." Join the Ars Orbital Transmission mailing list to get weekly updates delivered to your inbox.