Accessibility menu MyUWL - quicklinks at your fingertips! Select which audience you belong to and "My UWL" will display quicklinks and announcements tailored to you. Come spread your wings as a UW-La Crosse Eagle! Experience the power of a UWL education through high-impact learning and life-long friendships, all while surrounded by the epic beauty of La Crosse. Follow your path. We’ll show you the way. Quicklinks You’re kind of a big deal! You’re part of a group of truly amazing people. At UWL, we are inspired every day by the driven, active and engaged students who make us so proud. That’s right, you’re amazing! Quicklinks Here in La Crosse, people come together to work for the common good. At UWL, we live out the Wisconsin idea of public service and community engagement. We are proud to work with our many partners in La Crosse, giving back every day to a community that generously supports our teaching, learning and service mission. Quicklinks The La Crosse experience stays with you for a lifetime. UWL pride stays strong long after graduation! Stay connected with our beautiful campus and the teachers and friends who made your La Crosse experience so special. Quicklinks Experts. Scholars. Public servants. Community members. UWL consistently delivers a high-quality and life-changing experience. We’re able to do it because of you, our talented and dedicated faculty and staff. You are the reason for our excellence! Quicklinks University of Wisconsin-La Crosse | uwlax.edu D2L will no longer be available for instruction or for non-instructional purposes. Canvas will be the sole UWL learning management system. UWL faculty and staff will no longer have access to any of their D2L courses or course files. Support is available to help you transfer course files, rebuild your courses in Canvas and prepare to teach with Canvas: This workshop focuses on using the Canvas Gradebook. You will learn methods for efficient Gradebook usage, the benefits of using SpeedGrader, and the Gradebook's relationship to other tools in Canvas.    Send us your feedback or questions. UW-La Crosse social media Our leadership Employment Campus info