One morning last August, I was having a prenatal ultrasound, the second in the course of my twin pregnancy. I had arrived late to the appointment, rushing across town after walking my daughter to school, and was jittery with nervous excitement. But as my OB peered into the display, her silence was a dead giveaway. “I’m really sorry,” she said. “I don’t see any heartbeats.” After a D and C to remove “the retained products of conception,” I rested at home, lurking on internet message boards. I was reading about the mourning rituals of miscarriage: remembrance ceremonies, religious rites, even baby namings. At a check-up two weeks later, a nurse practitioner suggested that I should speak to a grief counselor, like her other patients had. Today, these stories are unusual. Because by the end of the 20th century, Withycombe told me, something had shifted. “We arrived at silence because of the triumph of reproductive control and the medical triumph of prenatal care,” she said. “We ended up with this narrative that every pregnancy is intended and every pregnancy is successful.” Glimpsing an embryonic heartbeat at six-and-a-half weeks, or a positive pregnancy test just days after a missed period, means that a pregnancy becomes real earlier than ever. “We are so often told that medicine is so advanced, especially in prenatal care and reproductive medicine,” that miscarriage shouldn’t happen, said Withycombe. “Once you miscarry, especially if you haven’t heard the statistics about how common it actually is, it’s easy to think it’s your fault, or that you did something wrong. Which only encourages women to stay silent.” From a medical perspective, miscarriage and abortion are the same, even if the language we use and the emotions associated with the two experiences are not. One key difference: Talking about your miscarriage won’t get you death threats. When it comes to miscarriage, any remaining silence should be broken, no doubt, but with the understanding that there’s no one way to talk. History reminds us that a miscarriage can mean different things to different people. Some may see it as a relief or a blessing, right along any grief. Speaking openly about miscarriage means making room for everyone to talk about miscarriage, no matter what they say.