A few years ago, I was out at the W6TRW swap meet at the parking lot of Northrop Grumman in Redondo Beach, California. Tucked away between TVs shaped like polar bears and an infinite variety of cell phone chargers and wall warts was a small wooden box. There was a latch, a wooden handle, and on the side a DB-25 port. There was a switch for half duplex and full duplex. I knew what this was. This was a modem. A wooden modem. Specifically, a Livermore Data Systems acoustically coupled modem from 1965 or thereabouts. This leaves an ancient modem like the one sitting on my desk in an odd position in history. It was designed, marketed and sold before the Carterphone decision, and thus could not connect directly to AT&T’s network. It was engineered before many of the integrated chips we take for granted were rendered in silicon. The first version of this modem was introduced only a year or so after the Bell 103 modem, the first commercially available modem, and is an excellent example of what can be done with thirteen or so transistors. It’s time for the teardown, so let’s dig in. Items of note from [preakmonkey]’s demo of his modem is that his was an extremely early model, with a serial number in the 200s. So far as I can see, his wooden box is made out of walnut, with dovetail joints. According to [preakmonkey], the type of joint on the wooden box will tell you how old it is; dovetails are labor-intensive, and the first production units were simply not optimized for production. Later units, around serial number 850, used teak with box joints that were much more suited for mass production than dovetails. Still later units, like mine, used a rabbet on all the joints. This is a clear optimization in the production process that allowed Livermore Data Systems to crank out more modems faster. Apart from the lack of an acoustic coupler, this modem is more or less exactly what the documentation and references told me. There is a backplane of sorts, holding three cards. One card holds the power supply (less transformer), another card holds the modulator, and another holds the demodulator. The transistor date codes, specifically for the 2n5138 transistors are from the 37th week of 1969. Nice. This puts the date of manufacture for the transistors in September of 1969, and the date of manufacture sometime after that. Unfortunately, there’s no way of narrowing down the vintage of this modem any further, but it’s entirely possible it was built and shipped before 1970.  My initial draw to this modem finding it at a ham swap meet was simply to own it. It’s a wooden modem, and I don’t think anyone I know respects exactly how cool that is. It’s on objet d’art, and it’s useful to store various sundries. I have considered repairing or refurbishing this modem, however there are a few things that make this impractical. First, there is no acoustic coupler. This, I believe, is the reason why no one at the swap meet realized what it was. The Livermore Data Systems emblem and serial number was also adhered to the acoustic coupler, and without that, you would really have no idea what you were looking at unless you had an intimate knowledge of the garbage pile of a warehouse in a vintage computer museum. But I could easily 3D print an acoustic coupler, and that might be tempting. Secondly, this modem is completely untested and half a century old. I guarantee the caps will need to be replaced, and the carbon composition caps are out of spec. I would need to reengineer the entire device to repair it, and there are better things I could do if I wanted to make my own modem. Unfortunately, it’s just not worth the time to repair this ancient wooden modem, but a good teardown does give some great insight into how things were built before there were integrated circuits in everything. It’s an object of curiosity, or at least it is until I can find an acoustic coupler for it. WTH? Think of all the lives they are saving! City changed things last year, due to terrorist attacks using a truck to drive through crowds. Nice Many unrelated US entities doubled down on security theater, after the disaster. That’s got the stones to grind your data up nice and fine. Of course, before modems there was the current loop. Teletypes were sending and receiving data over the phone line starting in the 1930’s. They required a direct connection to the phone line, so could only be used with the phone company’s blessing. . . . and fax machines sent images over telegraph lines around the time of the US Civil War. I believe current loop was run over “dry pairs” which are lines, owned by the telephone company, but not “phone lines” in the usual sense which means POTS unless otherwise specified. The dry circuits I worked on were usually “bananas” or something like a 69.BANA.123456 circuit ID. later on the circuit ID’s were 69.LADA.123456 etc. Fun to find up to a few years ago. Some were even still working in the Central Office I was in. Everything from SCADA to trellis modems and current loops could be found on them. Teletype over telco lines was either by acoustic coupler (Omnitec 700 and 701 had both 20mA current loop and RS232 connectors) for dialup POTS lines, or TWX or Telex service which was current loop. TWX was area code 810 and 710, Telex I’m not sure about.  TWX was Bell System, but isolated from the POTS system, calls made from a standard telephone line to area code 810 or 710 got an intercept and wouldn’t go through, but Teletypes on TWX could dial other TWX numbers just like you’d dial a phone call. Thanks for the memories :-) My first modem (in 1984) was a 300 baud acoustic coupler.  You could watch the characters appear on the screen as if someone was typing them! This is My First Modem. Inside was FUGLY.  Long thin wires flying around.  NOT Professional like later US Robotics products. Acoustic coupled, Originate Only, 300 Baud.  I could whistle the Answer Tone and trick the modem to respond. Interesting find. Would you mind not bashing everyone younger than you in your writing? Piss poor attitudes from the over 30 crowd are why I personally left the manufacturing and engineering sector, and you aren’t helping And whining like this just reinforces the perception that the younger generation are a bunch of over-sensitive snowflakes… I don’t think some90skid is complaining about the ‘young kid bashing’ in this specific article as much as the attitude that Benchoff consistently demonstrates toward the younger generation.  On a website where the statements he makes are most likely to be false of all places. I like watching snowflakes melt – from my MIGHTY HOT BREATH. Holy crap, kid, did they really drive you out of the industry? I have been in technical fields since about 2000, I’m just outside of the “millennial” generation, depending on how it is calculated. However, having been around a while and having struggled to climb the ladder, I can tell you that managers still love hiring young, enthusiastic engineers and technicians. The new whippersnappers will always be given a hard time by the old guard, but the old timers will always genuinely appreciate the young blood that is serious about the technology and the art. Yes, it’s true that the young apprentice must prove themselves, a degree is not enough (sometimes not even necessary). But this is where the “generation gap” often rears its ugly head. There are many young graduates who don’t understand that it is completely normal to have to prove yourself in a field before you get the respect and the big pay day. When I hire, I want the most brilliant folks I can afford on my team. I want them to be smarter than I am and have more potential for greatness. And so I end up with a broad distribution on the age scale. The young pups that come on board get put through their paces to prove their mettle, and that will never change. But the only time it becomes toxic or negative is when someone feels they shouldn’t have to put in that time and effort to gain the respect of their peers. You can’t just skip over the hard part, the entry level. That’s just life! If you are being abused and discriminated against for your age (in this case, youth), that is truly an awful thing and I don’t want to make light of it. But you need to know that the greatest bias among hiring managers tends to be that they don’t want to hire folks who whine and complain, regardless of age. Make sure that isn’t you, and you will find someone who will take a chance on you. It may take a long time! There are billions of folks competing for resources these days. But it is not hopeless, and any trouble you may have finding a job in your field is certainly not because no one wants young, energetic, and typically lower cost employees. “But the only time it becomes toxic or negative is when someone feels they shouldn’t have to put in that time and effort to gain the respect of their peers.” I’ve definitely dealt with ‘old guard’ being convinced that anyone younger than them was useless by design and extremely toxic. Once with my suggestion (and PoC) for how to solve a bit of a complex problem being thrown completely out as unusable, while they introduced more and more sketchy ways to attempt to fix it and ridiculed my every suggestion as impossible for over a year until it finally circled back around to exactly what I had done without their help in the very beginning, where they promptly ‘forgot’ that was how I originally designed it.  When I bought this up the response was ‘well I guess you were right’ with no further discussion, followed by still being excluded.  That was an expensive waste of a year of work and thousands of man hours.  It’s definitely one of the factors that made me leave engineering as a career (or at least working on teams). Hopefully I can do some stuff solo because I really like it.  The younger kids I deal in engineering with are universally excited to do it and universally smarter than I am (and extremely fast learners!) it’s always a pleasure to work with them, even if I don’t connect on a cultural level. And in my case there was definitely no ‘thinking I didn’t need to put in my time’ because I was new to the field with no formal training and know I’m still not very good at it.  But just because I don’t have the technical skills to execute on the first try doesn’t mean I’m incapable of thinking about a problem and narrowing down solutions, as the older engineers believed. That’s the trick. Convincing others that “your” idea is “their” idea all along. That “trick” usually involves wasting a huge amount of time. The trick is in explaining the idea. If you’re quick to draw a really nice picture about it, people lock on to it regardless. If you can illustrate it and present it well, it takes over their imagination and suddenly nobody can think otherwise. If you’re trying to explain it verbally or in text, people just ignore it because they won’t bother assimilating the idea. Avoid any technical details, numbers and charts – anything that needs interpretation. An animation is the best. Jacob, I can totally commiserate with your story and I know that is not uncommon at all. My previous employers have always had pockets that were resistant to change, reality, and reason. Sometimes this infects a wide swath of corporate culture, and sometimes it even starts with the C level. That widespread resistance to innovation is the recipe for a failing organization.  I’m glad you got out with your dignity and moved on. It may take decades for that place to fall apart, depending on how well funded and entrenched in the market they are, but trust that they will fall. If they are that rotten from within, the cracks will show and the whole thing will begin to crumble at some point. My point is, if you find yourself in a mess like that as a young techie, take the time to assess yourself and make sure you are taking the valid criticism for what it is worth. Then, as you keep improving yourself to be your best self, start quietly looking for a place that isn’t rotten and smelling of death. What I’ve run into many times is coming fresh into a situation and quickly spotting a solution by combining knowledge I have from something else with what I’m looking at. Some specialists tend to dislike it very much when a generalist takes a ‘peek over their shoulder’ and solves in a minute something they’ve been struggling with for a long time. Well, too bad. Could’ve stared at that for another week and never found the problem because yer too stubborn to ask other people to take a look. Even worse is when a person who doesn’t know anything at all about the gizmo looks at it for five seconds, finds a loose wire or fastener and fixes it after the people who know every last detail had missed it for hours. Some times you just have to pick a thing up and flip it upside down and shake it… *clack* “Is this thing that fell out important?” I once saw someone who wasn’t even being paid (some bosses do that in the DCPHP market) look at a DB problem two “high level” people” were staring at on his first day and say “You need an XOR there.”  Saved them hours based on how long they’d been staring at it.  He wasn’t even a quirky genius, just a fresh set of eyes.  I know because he is me. I’ve seen it numerous times in the Navy when the person assisting didn’t even really have to say anything about the problem, and I’ve been on both sides. Rhyno +1 Please point out the age-bashing to which you’re referring. All I could see is one mention of Fortnite in a neutral comparison. Merely comparing a vintage tech term to a modern game seems benign. Hence the “snowflake” comment by wibble I have a really hard time believing no one else knew what this was. The combination of the full/half duplex switch and the DB25 connector simply scream ‘modem’ to anyone with a comms background, surely? The one thing I would add is the definition of modem: you say “modulator” and “demodulator” referirng to the sub-boards without the clue that modem is a portmanteau of the two. I had a college prof who told his students it should be pronounced “mahd deem”, rather than “moe dem”. Codec I’m not disagreeing, but consider that when those more modern communication techniques did arrive, they were built on and spread on the proceeds of that companies legal monopoly. Don’t forget what funded R&D that brought us the silicon transistor, information theory, and more. Those more modern communication techniques built on the huge investments in the telephone network. Would those things have come to pass if The Phone Company Monopoly had never come to pass? Probably, but when? Apologies for all the missing/mangled punctuation, etc. Saturday Night Live Transcripts Season 2: Episode 1 76a: Lily Tomlin / James Taylor The Phone Company Ernestine: A gracious hello. Here at the Phone Company, we handle eighty-four billion calls a year. Serving everyone from presidents and kings to the scum of the earth. So, we realize that, every so often, you can’t get an operator, or for no apparent reason your phone goes out of order, or perhaps you get charged for a call you didn’t make. We don’t care! Watch this… [ she hits buttons maniacally ] We just lost Peoria. You see, this phone system consists of a multibillion-dollar matrix of space age technology that is so sophisticated — [ she hits buttons with her elbows ] even we can’t handle it. But that’s your problem, isn’t it? So, the next time you complain about your phone service, why don’t you try using two Dixie cups with a string? We don’t care. We don’t have to. We’re the Phone Company. So if you’ve ever felt railroaded by Sprint, now you know why. ;) Microwave Communication International was a big player too, they later got absorbed by … eh you know the story. Ma Bell’s divestiture was because of Sprint and MCI. Good? Bad? We’re here now I suppose. And WilTel, founded in 1985, (which became VYVX, which became Century Link) and its parent company, The Williams Cos. Inc., ran fiber-optic cables through decommissioned natural gas pipelines. Beats digging up roads. Since when has it been the responsibility of Exxon to track climate data? That’s the job of NOAA in government, and private companies like Accuweather. “The probability of knowing what an acoustically coupled modem looks like is inversely proportional to knowing what Fortnite is…” I first read that and stopped, thinking… I used to know how many days in a fortnight. Then I thought… why would that be inversely proportional? Then I looked back and realized the article was talk Fortnite the game, not a fortnight. Oh well. Nice. I suspect it’s true both ways. ;) I don’t usually notice the byline in an article, until I run into a Benchoff sentence like that and scroll back up to see if I was right! #metoo! My first modem was an acoustically coupled 300 baud modem on a TRS80 model 100. I still have it and the TRS100. I should check if they still work. After that I moved on to selling 1200 baud plug in modems for pre-Internet services like AOL. Then I got lucky and the company I worked for supplied me with a blazing fast 56kb frame relay service! Then to DSL and so on. Although we have come a long way in terms of communications speed, the services in the USA seem to be hitting a wall at around 50mbps or less (actual speed not maximum speed) in most places. Gigabit Internet speeds are still rare. Maybe 5G will change that. The volume of data just for a simple web page is huge nowadays and it seems like load times never get better. More bandwidth just seems to result in more more garbage being added to sites. I swear one of the best browsing experiences I ever had, on text only with images turned off, was on this unicorn of a 14.4k modem I got, it was a cheapy unit built just before the lempel-ziv patent war shit hit the fan and had multiple compression technologies implemented, and was only matched by the ISP multi-protocol modems at the POPs… Anyhoo, text webpage throughput was upwards of 10 kilobytes a second, seeing 15 sometimes and it just flew around the web, until I needed images or downloads, then of course it was chugging at 1.5-2KBs it made both the 28.8 and the 33.3 modems I got after it rather disappointing since their compression only managed 2x on text, though binaries got 3-4KB… finally a later 56k after all the standards were mature started to match it, but in 2 or 3 years the bloat had caught up, and you couldn’t see half of what was what unless you turned on images. Is there somewhere phone BBS that accept 300 bps connection. I want to test my Vicmodem. Sorry for being off topic. Do you have google? ;-b I did tried some of these numbers but I’m not sure if BBS is set for 300 bps. That is why I’m asking if someone knows it for a fact. I took one of these apart as a kid in the 1970s and used the parts to build a rudimentary intercom. It was a very nice wooden box. My dad brought it home from work and it must have been completely obsolete if he gave it to me to play with. “It’s an objet d’art, and it’s useful to store various sundries.” Strange that the made they made the PCBs symmetrical. I can’t see anything that would prevent putting in the PCBs upside-down and the single-sideded PCB would still make contact with the other side of the connector, but in reverse pin order…. The obvious question would be, why did the sockets have contacts on both sides? My first experience with a real computer was through a Model 33 Teletype plugged into one of these.  My high school had four of these pairs tucked away in a corner of a classroom.  Only, ours were in the dovetailed boxes.  Which seemed anachronistic, even in 1970.  I mean, computers then weren’t even plastic, yet.  They were METAL.  I knew instantly from the picture, what this must be, although I never saw one with the box opened up.  This was in 1970, and the computer we called (using a rotary-dial phone) was about five miles away at the University of California at Irvine, where a monstrosity of telephone relays and stepping switches called the “line finder” connected phone lines through similar modems to available serial ports on a Xerox Data Systems Sigma 7 mainframe. One question, where is the acoustic coupler? God I feel old. My wife  used a 300baud accoustic modem for a while years ago from home for program development. I think it had an option to switch to 110 baud as well. But that was in the 1970’s. It was included with a typewriter in a portable case. Well semi-portable with a ghastly thermal printer for output. Fill in your details below or click an icon to log in: Connecting to %s