The CSE Lab prepares a virtual machine image - a "home VM" - that approximates the computing experience of an instructional Linux box at school that you can run on your desktop or laptop wherever you are. This document explains how this works, and what you need to do in order to use this software. A number of our courses have programming projects that require the use of a Linux host to complete. A virtual machine affords you the option for working on these projects on your own device, anywhere in the world. The "Linux Home VM" we prepare runs the same underlying operating system - CentOS 7, as of Spring Quarter 2018 - and nearly the same software packages as are installed on our instructional Linux hosts (ie. the 'attus') on campus, with a few exceptions for licensing reasons. Virtual machines run inside some other program. There are numerous applications, on most platforms, that fulfill this need. We offer access to download VMware Workstation (for Windows) or VMware Fusion (for Macintosh) free of charge to students enrolled in CSE courses that require the software. There are many others - Virtualbox, Parallels, KVM, and Docker, to name a few - but for the purposes of this introductory document, we’ll assume you are using one of the VMWare products. Four steps: get the software and install it, get the VM and unpack it, start up the VM, and personalize it. Files can be moved onto or off of the VM with a "drag and drop" action in the GUI, or with one of the following programs running on the VM: "scp" or "rcp" or "sftp." If you'd like to mount your UW ("U: drive") home directory, there are two methods. You'll be asked for your UWNetID credentials during either process. If you find that your virtual machine's configuration has become unstable, you can attempt to recover your VM home directory and  environment by following these steps. The file that ends in "-homes.vmdk" is the disk partition that contains your VM's home directory. Computer Engineering degree program accredited by ABET