I did well in the intro courses but for some reason CSE 351 gave me a very hard time. I had Luis Ceze back in 2015 and I honestly didn't like him much. I dropped the class by the middle of the quarter as I was pretty much failing. I'm going in again this fall hoping I can make it. Are the assignments the same every quarter? The assignments are pretty much the same every quarter. Like caustic_kiwi said, K&R is pretty well regarded and might help if it's the C portion of the class that you're struggling with. For me (and I would guess most others), C was the easy part of the class. Did you go to your section? I found the quiz section to always be very helpful with getting started on challenging projects. For me (and I would guess most others), C was the easy part of the class Yeah, I found the Assembly "puzzles" to be the most frustrating There was some textbook that we had some assigned readings from, but it wasn't too useful other than that. I can't remember what it was called, unfortunately. Sorry. Right, that's it. I found it pretty helpful for stuff with caches, but other than that it was pretty meh. Quiz section notes to learn how to use tooling. Stuff like bitwise manipulation is pretty much banging your head against a wall from what I can tell. So allocate time seems to be the solution. I also had a really hard time with 351. My advice for getting through the C-and-pointers stuff is to just budget a lot of time for it, and go to office hours until you figure out whatever you're working on. Also, I took 351 a while ago so this may or may not be relevant anymore, but for me the second half of the class that dealt with stuff like memory and caches was a lot easier than all the pointer stuff in the first half, so it's possible the half you didn't take last time won't be as bad as the half you did take. You can do it! You're at UW, taking 351, so I know you got this. It can be a really rough class, but it's not impossible. I still remember getting a sixty-something on a midterm where the average was in the 90s, but I kept studying hard and ended up getting a good grade. You can too, and even if not, you're presumably already in the department, so you don't need to impress admissions, and one lower grade won't affect your future in any way, shape or form. 351 is pretty early on in the CSE program, and for me it was really the first time in my academic experience that I encountered a class that didn't come easily to me. If that described you as well - take a deep breath, remember that this is just one class, and you can do this. You're gonna learn a ton, and even if you never write any C code once you graduate, it will have been a valuable class to have taken. Not just for learning about pointers, but with learning how to deal with challenging courses and topics. 13.3k Subscribers 225 Online The Unofficial Subreddit of the University of Washington Overview Welcome to the unofficial subreddit of the University of Washington! This subreddit is a place to post links and stories relating to events and happenings in and around the University of Washington. Before posting a question, consider reading some of the sidebar links, or searching the sub.  There's a good chance there's already been a discussion on what you want to ask! Useful Links UW Website Subreddit Wiki - Feel Free to Contribute! General FAQ and Information Post by a Foster's alum (not business specific) Prospective CSE Major FAQ HCDE Advisor AMA Engineering Admission Statistics (through 2014) Getting into Closed Classes Related Subreddits /r/pac12 /r/uwgrad