Get your team access to Udemy's top 3,000+ courses anytime, anywhere. Why should I learn music theory? Isn't it just "theoretical" knowledge that I won't really use? Nothing could be further from the truth! Music theory also has many practical applications. A musician who has studied music theory has a huge advantage over a musician who has not. Not only will they read music more fluently, their performances will be more musical because they will understand the various elements of music and how all the parts work together. Song writers and composers with a background in music theory will also have a huge advantage over those without such a background. In fact, for those who want to write music, there is nothing more important than having a firm understanding of music theory. Why You Should Take This Course: you will be learning from a professional musician and award-winning composer the course is in-depth and covers all levels the material is presented in a straight forward and easy to understand approach the videos and PDFs get right to the point, and do not ramble on for lengthy amounts of time saying very little and leaving you confused you will go beyond just definitions and terms and get the added benefit of learning the "why" behind the subject matter Includes: 112 lectures over 350 diagrams over 90 audio examples 369 memory questions 45 on-line quizzes nearly 1,000 quiz questions exercises, experiments and downloadable music apps A brief overview of how the course is structured. The elements of music (rhythm & pitch) Division of pitch into melody and harmony Rhythmic notation (parts of a note) Discussion on relative durations of sound Notes - whole, half, quarter, eighth, and sixteenth Why notes are named the way they are Relative durations vs. assigning numerical values The unit of measurement Beat The relation between beat and tempo Metronome markings Common tempo markings The definition of meter Distinguishing between rhythm and meter Bar lines and measures Time signatures 2/4, 3/4 and 4/4 meters Origin of "C" for common time Natural division of rhythms Strong and weak pulses Rests: whole, half, quarter, eighth and sixteenth Assigning numerical values to rests The whole rest and meter Dotted notes Numerical values of dotted notes History of dotted notes The divisiblity by 3 of all dotted notes The definition of a tie The playing of tied notes Ties vs. dotted notes Advantages and disadvantages of notating with ties vs. dots Re-designation of the unit 3/8 and 6/8 meters New numerical values of notes Understanding relative durations with regard to a new unit of measurement The location of the strongest pulses in 3/8 & 6/8 meters Designating the half note as the unit Notating 2/2 meter or “cut” time Numerical values of note durations in 2/2 meter Comparison of 4/4 meter and 2/2 meter Reasons for 2/2 meter Defining simple meter Simple duple Simple triple Simple quadruple Defining compound meter compound duple compound triple compound quadruple pulse vs. beat Defining complex meter Some common complex meters Problems with complex meters