Getting Certificate Course... Need guidance? Lesson 1: Rhythm Part I Lesson 2: Rhythm Part II Lesson 3: Pitch Notation Lesson 4: Major Scales Lesson 5: Minor Scales Lesson 6: Intervals Lesson 7: Chords I: Triads Lesson 8: Triad Inversions Lesson 9: Chords II: Basic Seventh Chords Lesson 10: Inversions and Voice: Leading of Seventh Chords Lesson 11: Using the Lead Sheet Lesson 12: Melody Writing Required Textbook(s) Software Requirements Author & Instructor Instructor Russell Hoffmann is Assistant Professor of Piano at Berklee College of Music and is a pianist, recording artist, composer and arranger in many styles of contemporary music, including jazz, Latin, and pop styles. He has served as musical director for Concord recording artist Marlena Shaw and the University of Minnesota&aposs "Twelve Moods for Jazz" Langston Hughes project. He has performed with many jazz luminaries, including Jack McDuff, James Moody, Billy Hart, Donald Harrison, Bobbie McFerrin, Peter Lietch, and many of Boston&aposs finest jazz artists. As a clinician, Russ has appeared in Berklee&aposs Italy summer program, Umbria Jazz Festival, Perugia, Italy; Berklee in Taipei; Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; Heineken Jazz Fest, San Juan, Puerto Rico; and the Berklee Annual Jazz Festival. He is the author of workbooks on keyboard comping, ensemble performance, and co-author of the Berklee Practice Method: Keyboard. Instructor Instructor Dave Limina is an associate professor in the Piano department at Berklee College of Music, where he received the Most Valuable Contribution to the Performance Curriculum Award in 2001 for his work in developing the Hammond organ program. An experienced session keyboardist, composer, and arranger, Dave has performed with Ronnie Earl and the Broadcasters, Lori McKenna, Duke Robillard, Gloria Estefan, Mark Murphy, Scott Hamilton, the first national touring company of the Broadway musical Rent, and many others. He received Boston Music Award nominations for his work with Courage Brothers, Ronnie Earl, and Mighty Sam McClain, and has played on several Grammy-nominated recordings. He played keyboards on Michelle Willson&aposs Wake Up Call, which won a Boston Music Award in 2001. Dave does extensive session work in Boston, New York, and LA. He is the author of Hammond Organ Complete (Berklee Press) and the instructional video/DVD Accelerate Your Keyboard Playing. His playing is featured on many TV and film soundtracks. Instructor An assistant professor in Berklee&aposs Harmony department since 1997, Alizon Lissance is a well-rounded musician with decades of experience as a multi-keyboard player, vocalist, songwriter, and arranger. She has earned regional and national accolades, ranging from critical acclaim in Musician Magazine to receiving a Boston Music Award as "Outstanding Keyboardist" in 1991. Instructor Michael Moyes has been working at Berklee since 2008. He has performed piano as a soloist, in combos, and accompanied by a full orchestra. In addition to piano and music theory, Michael teaches five string banjo and actively performs and records original bluegrass, country, and folk music. He is also the Associate Dean of Admissions Strategy and Operations for Berklee Online. Instructor Melissa Howe comes to the Office of the President following many years on faculty and five years as chair of the String Department. Teaching has been an integral part of her life as a musician. "Performing music, teaching music, and reflecting on music create a very constructive and creative feedback loop," Howe says. Her evolving roles at the college have broadened her understanding of the meaning of music and music education in today&aposs world. As faculty, her mission was to guide each student toward self-discovery and technical mastery. As department chair, she supported several hundred students and their faculty, seeking out the right tools to enable students to lay their foundation for their life’s work. Now, as chief of staff, she ensures that the mission and vision of Berklee—to educate, train, and develop students to excel in music as a career—plays out everywhere in the daily life of the college. To do this, she works as an active and integral link between President Roger H. Brown and the college as a whole, ensuring that the institution’s strategic initiatives are on track and executed efficiently and thoughtfully. When taken for credit, Music Theory 101 can be applied towards these associated programs: We can also answer basic questions in the comments below. Please note that all comments are public. Create an account to download our catalog, get our newsletter, and more. Create an account to download our free course catalog, and receive updates about this course. Berklee is accredited by the New England Commission of Higher Education (formerly the Commission on Institutions of Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges, Inc.). To provide proof of a bachelor's degree, you will be prompted to submit an unofficial copy of your transcript alongside the Credential Verification Form beginning in early April.