From the different types of notes to how to form chords, this is music theory every beginning music student should know. Want to learn what are the common symbols used in music? Here's a tutorial that will walk you through the kinds of clefs, types of notes and the staff. As a beginner you may be realizing that music has its own language and in order to be able to play correctly there are many musical symbols and concepts you must first learn. What are natural notes and what does the natural sign do? Learn the answer here. Enumerates the different types of rest symbols and their meaning. Sharps and flats are also called accidentals. But what are double accidentals? The quick answer here. In music there are certain repeat signs used to indicate which measure or measures should be repeated. Here's more information on repeat signs. Beats are used as a way of counting time when playing a piece of music. Beats gives music its' regular rhythmic pattern. The Italian word at the beginning of a music piece indicates how slow or fast the piece should be played. The Circle of Fifths is a diagram which is an essential tool for musicians. It is named such because it uses a circle to illustrate the relationship of different keys that are a fifth apart. The major scale is the foundation from which all other scales are formed. The word "pentatonic" comes from the Greek word pente meaning five and tonic meaning tone. The whole tone scale has 6 notes that are all a whole step apart making its intervallic formula easy to remember. An interval is the difference between two pitches measured by half steps. Notes that are played together or simultaneously create harmony. The interval between these notes are called harmonic intervals. When you play notes separately, one after another, you are playing a melody. The distance between these notes is called a melodic interval. The symbol used to signify a major 7th is maj7 while min7 stands for minor 7th. Chord inversions are used by composers and musicians for modulation, to create a melodic bass line and generally to make music more interesting. There are two more types of triads called diminished and augmented chords Consonant chords sound harmonious and pleasing, while dissonant chords elicit a feeling of tension and sounds like the notes are clashing. These chords are built from the 2nd, 3rd and 6th notes of a scale and are all minor chords. You can play around with various chord patterns to see what other melodies you can come up with. Modes are used in many types of music; from sacred music to jazz to rock. Composers use it to add "flavor" to their compositions in order to avoid predictability. There was an error. Please try again.