Get your team access to Udemy's top 3,000+ courses anytime, anywhere. ** UDEMY BEST SELLER ** Welcome to the COMPLETE Music Theory Guide! This is a class designed for the average person who is ready to take music theory (or music interest) and turn it into a usable skill. Whether you are an active musician or an aspiring musician, this class is perfect for you. For years I've been teaching Music Theory in the college classroom. These classes I'm making for Udemy use the same syllabus I've used in my college classes for years, at a fraction of the cost. I believe anyone can learn Music Theory - and cost shouldn't be a barrier. Dr. Allen is a professional musician, top-rated Udemy instructor, and university professor. In 2017 the Star Tribune featured him as a "Mover and a Shaker," and he is recognized by the Grammy Foundation for his music education classes. This class is a Comprehensive class - it will have many parts, going through my entire annual curriculum. This Edition of the class is the "Complete" Edition: It contains levels 1, 2, & 3 in their entirety. Included in this course: 151 Video lectures, following my college Music Theory Curriculum. 28 Downloadable worksheets for practice (with answers!) Access through discounts to my entire network for music classes Membership to the class theory-learner community My approach to Music Theory Tools you will need to learn Music Theory quickly and efficiently Music software: Notation programs The elements of the Score Pitch Names Pitch Classes Octaves The White Keys The Black Keys (not the band!) Half-Steps and Whole-Steps Clefs Intervals Naming Octaves Identifying Notes on the Staff Identifying Notes on the Keyboard Beat and Beat Divisions Tempo Downbeats and Upbeats Dotted Rhythms Time Signatures Ties Accidentals Form in Music Notation Chromatic and Diatonic scales Ordered Pitch Class Collections The pattern of a Major Scale Scale Degrees Solfege Writing melodies with major scales Analyzing melodies What it means to be "in key" Key signatures How to identify key signatures Popular song analysis Building triads (chords) Diatonic chord progressions Roman numeral analysis Inversions Finding chords by formula The thirds inside of a chord Finding fifths by finding thirds Diminished triads Augmented triads Chords on the guitar Full Analysis: Canon in D (Pachabel) Full Analysis: Minuet in G (Bach) 7th Chords Major 7th Chords Minor 7th Chords Dominant 7th Chords Tendency Chords Using the Circle of Fifths for Songwriting and Composition Borrowing from Closely Related Keys Scale Degree Names Tendency Tones Compound Meters Compound Meter Signatures Reading and Writing Compound Meters Triplets, dubplets, and Quadruplets Finding Minor keys by alternations to Major Patterns in Minor keys Relative Minor keys Parallel Minor keys Minor keys in the Circle of Fifths Using Minor Keys for Songwriting and Composition Diatonic Chord Progressions in Minor The V Chord and Minor and the Leading Tone Problem Harmonic Minor Scales Melodic Minor Scales ...and much, much more! And of course, once you sign up for this class, you automatically get huge discounts to all the upcoming parts of this class. You will not have another opportunity to learn Music Theory in a more comprehensive way than this. All the tools you need to successfully learn Music Theory are included in this course and the entire course is based on real-life experiences - not just academic theory. --------------------------------------------------------------------- Praise for Courses by Jason Allen: ---------------------------------------------------------------------------- Students who register for this course will receive ongoing exclusive content and discounts to all future classes in the series. Welcome to the class! In this lecture we will do a quick overview of the course. I approach music theory from a composer and songwriters perspective. In this lecture I'll walk you through how I think about Music Theory and how I approach teaching (and learning) it. I'm going to teach this class using a really cool (and FREE) software program. You don't need to get it, but I think it will help you learn more, and learn faster. Here is the download I talked about in the previous lecture. Some nice clean staff paper. Print out a few sheets for taking notes! There are a lot of music notation software programs (well, only 3, actually). And they can be quite expensive. I'm recommending a free one, but the others are worth talking about quickly before we dive in to the real guts of the class. To get started, I want to just walk through a score and point out the different elements that we are seeing. We will learn what all of these mean soon. Here we go: The names of the pitches. We have pitch names, which we just learned. We also have pitch classes - slightly different (but important) than pitch names. A lot of music theory comes down to intervals - the distance between notes. Our first interval that we will learn is the Octave. Here is a downloadable PDF worksheet for you to practice on. Page 2 of this worksheet has the answers on it so you can check your work. Practice, practice, practice! We won't be learning how to play the piano in this class. But the piano is useful to us because it gives us a really nice visual of the notes. We've learned the names of the notes, so next lets learn how to find them on the keyboard. The black keys present a little bit of a problem. They have 2 different names, and this can be confusing. But hold tight - it will all make sense after this video. We've learned about Octaves - our first interval. Now we need to learn 2 more intervals, and these are much smaller than an octave. Up next: A little recap. We need to connect a few dots to make sense of how this all works together. Here is a downloadable PDF worksheet for you to practice on. Page 2 of this worksheet has the answers on it so you can check your work. Practice, practice, practice! Lets go a little deeper on how the staff works, and how we read notes from it. A new wrinkle! The Clef can show us what range of notes we are talking about. There are many clefs, and everything changes if we are on a different clef. Lets focus just on the treble clef for now, and get back to what we already know. Now that we can see notes on the staff, we should try to get comfortable naming the notes and the intervals. Sometimes we use numbers to indicate the octave, like C3, C4, C5, etc. You might see these numbers so I want you to know what they mean. Before we go into the next worksheet, let's talk about the Natural symbol. Here is a downloadable PDF worksheet for you to practice on. Page 2 of this worksheet has the answers on it so you can check your work. Practice, practice, practice! In order to notate rhythms, we need to be able to quantify them by their relationship to each other. We can add a dot to any rhythm (or rest) to elongate it. What about a rhythm that indicates a certain amount of silence? That is called a rest, and there is one for every rhythmic symbol. So far we have looked mostly only at the time signature of 4/4. But there are many others, and things work a little differently in each one. So far we have a whole note (4 beats long) as the longest possible rhythmic symbol. But we can make longer symbols by connecting a few together using ties. A brief side note: I've been giving you a lot of terms in this class that are specific to the way we talk about music in the United States. In this lecture I'll talk a bit about some things you should know if you are outside of the U.S. Here is a downloadable PDF worksheet for you to practice on. Page 2 of this worksheet has the answers on it so you can check your work. Practice, practice, practice! So far we have talked about notes on the score, and rhythms on the score. What about volume? We call volume "Dynamics" and this is how we notate them. There is a little more to accidentals that we haven't learned yet. Lets tie up some loose ends about accidentals in this video. Form is the order of events in music. It is also notated on the score using repeats, DS sections, and other tricks. Here is a downloadable PDF worksheet for you to practice on. Page 2 of this worksheet has the answers on it so you can check your work. Practice, practice, practice! There is a secret website that publishes thousands and thousands of scores that we can download and practice with. Here are my tips for practicing! Here are a bunch of files for you to practice with. This is actually a complete book of (fairly) simple music compositions to practice with. Thats it for part 1! We've only scratched the surface! Welcome to the class! Here is a quick overview of what we will cover, and a little previous of what is to come! I'm going to be using a program to show (and playback) notes throughout this class, and I think you should too. Its a free program, and can really help you learn. You also can't go wrong with some good old-fashioned staff paper. Scales are the basic building blocks for musical keys and chords. Two important words that we need to learn ASAP: Chromatic and Diatonic. "Ordered Pitch Class Collections" is sort of a fancy term for a scale, but its important to know. Chromatic scales can be both the most easy to understand and the most complicated.