Java is a high level, robust, object-oriented and secure programming language. Let's have a quick look at Java programming example. A detailed description of hello Java example is available in next page. According to Sun, 3 billion devices run Java. There are many devices where Java is currently used. Some of them are as follows: There are mainly 4 types of applications that can be created using Java programming: Standalone applications are also known as desktop applications or window-based applications. These are traditional software that we need to install on every machine. Examples of standalone application are Media player, antivirus, etc. AWT and Swing are used in Java for creating standalone applications. An application which is created for mobile devices is called a mobile application. Currently, Android and Java ME are used for creating mobile applications. There are 4 platforms or editions of Java: It is a micro platform which is mainly used to develop mobile applications. It is used to develop rich internet applications. It uses a light-weight user interface API. To learn Java, you must have the basic knowledge of C/C++ programming language. Our Java programming tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. We assure that you will not find any problem in this Java tutorial. However, if there is any mistake, please post the problem in the contact form. C. Graphics Automata Testing NumPy Verbal A. AWS Aptitude Reasoning Verbal A. Interview DBMS DS DAA OS C. Network Compiler D. COA D. Math. Web Tech. Cyber Sec. C C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control S. JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on hr@javatpoint.com, to get more information about given services. Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935 © Copyright 2011-2018 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.