Learn the basics of the popular Java language in this introductory course. Java is among the most popular programming languages out there, mainly because of how versatile and compatible it is. Java can be used for a large number of things, including software development, mobile applications, and large systems development. Knowing Java opens a great deal of doors for you as a developer. In this course you’ll be exposed to fundamental programming concepts, including object-oriented programming (OOP) using Java. You’ll build 7 Java projects—like a basic calculator—to help you practice along the way. We’re building new and exciting content for this course, look for these new modules soon! Welcome to the world of Java programming! Java is a popular object-oriented programming language that is used in many different industries. Learn about datatypes in Java and how we use them. Then, practice your skills with two projects where you create and manipulate variables. Learn about object-oriented programming in Java. Explore syntax for defining classes and creating instances. Conditionals and control flow in Java programs. Portfolio projects that showcase your new skills Write your first Java program from scratch by introducing yourself to users and planting a tree for them. You'll practice creating a class, defining the main method, and organizing print statements. Let's build fluency in Java fundamentals. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice creating variables and printing. You have learned these skills already, so we're going to put them to the test by generating a story, Mad Libs style. It's time to build fluency in Java Operators. In this next Pro Project, we're going to practice arithmetic in Java so you can hone your skills and feel confident taking them to the real world. Why? Practicing computing integer values with Java's arithmetic operators will help you with a wide, wide range of Java tasks in the future. What's next? Some math, more Java, and a sprinkle of magic. You got this! Stress-test your knowledge with quizzes that help commit syntax to memory