Java is a popular general-purpose programming language and computing platform. It is fast, reliable, and secure. According to Oracle, the company that owns Java, Java runs on 3 billion devices worldwide. Considering the number of Java developers, devices running Java, and companies adapting it, it's safe to say that Java will be around for many years to come. This guide will provide everything you need to know about Java programming language before you learn it. More specifically, you will learn about features of Java programming, its applications, reasons to learn it, and how you can learn it the right way. Before getting started on Java programming, lets get familiarized with the language first. In 1991, the team "Green Team" led by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems created a programming language for digital consumer devices. The language was called Oak then. Why Oak? Because there was an oak tree outside Gosling's office. The "Green Team" demonstrated the use of the language with an interactive television. However, it was too advanced for the digital cable television at the time, and more suitable a technology that was starting to take off, the Internet. Since C/C++ was popular back then, James Gosling designed the language with C/C++ style syntax, and philosophy "write once, run anywhere". After years, Sun Microsystems released the first public implementation of Java in 1995. It was announced that the Netscape Navigator Internet browser would incorporate Java technology. In 2010, Sun Microsystems was completely acquired by Oracle Corporation along with Java. Java Version History Java technology is everywhere, powering 3 billion devices worldwide. It's more than likely that you have used Java one way or the other. Here are some of the applications of Java. Besides these applications, Java is also used for game development, scientific applications (like natural language processing), and many others.  Learning a new programming language can be challenging. You will hear a lot of new terms which can be overwhelming for a newbie. So, we have decided to explain a few terms that you are likely to hear in the world of Java programming language. Note, this is not the complete list of Java Glossary. Instead, it's a list of terms you should know before you start learning Java programming. Here are the steps to install Java for Mac OS X and MacOS: Now the Java is installed, the next step is to install an IDE (integrated development environment) to write Java code and run it. We will install community version of IntelliJ IDEA, which is free. Here are the steps to install IntelliJ IDEA and run Java on in it. To run Java Programming on Linux, you'll need to install two things: JAVA SE Development Kit (JDK) and IDE to create your Java Projects. Follow this step by step guide to get started. To run Java Programming in Windows, you'll need to install two things: JAVA SE Development Kit (JDK) and IDE to create your Java Projects. Follow this step by step guide to get started. Our tutorials are designed for beginners who do not have any prior knowledge of Java. Each tutorial is written in depth with examples and detailed explanation. If you are serious about learning programming, you should get yourself a good book. Granted, reading a 1000 page book takes a lot of time and patience. However, following a good Java book will help you learn Java programming, the way it should be learned. This is a good book for someone who is learning Java (or any other programming language) for the first time. It's updated for the latest major release of Java (Java 8). The book covers everything you need to know about Java programming, including its syntax, keywords, and fundamental programming principles along with Java API library, applets and much more. If you are switching to Java from another programming language, this book is for you. If you are a beginner in programming, you can use this book along with another book. One of the best Java books every Java programmer should get. That being said, this book doesn't cover features of Java 8. As suggested by the name, it's a Java book to get quick answers. It covers all fundamental concepts of Java (including Java 8) in brief . Don't want to search pages and pages to look for a small information? Get this book.  You cannot go wrong with learning Java. It's the language of opportunities and possibilities. You must be eager to learn Java by now. However, here are some tips, and best practices to follow before you learn Java. I hope this article has encouraged you to learn Java, and helped you to get started. There is no reason to wait now. Let's explore the world of Java programming language. We are working hard to create easy to follow step by step Java tutorial. Subscribe now, and we'll let you know once the tutorial is complete. You have successfully subscribed to our Java newsletter. Get Latest Updates on Programiz You have successfully subscribed to our newsletter.