Affordable application performance monitoring solution designed for developers Overview > Our blog contains over 500 high quality articles about popular software development topics. Visit Blog > Stackify was founded in 2012 with the goal to create an easy to use set of tools for developers to improve their applications. Now over 1000 organizations in nearly 50 countries rely on Stackify’s tools to provide critical application performance and code insights so they can deploy better applications faster. Affordable application performance monitoring solution designed for developers Overview > Our blog contains over 500 high quality articles about popular software development topics. Visit Blog > Stackify was founded in 2012 with the goal to create an easy to use set of tools for developers to improve their applications. Now over 1000 organizations in nearly 50 countries rely on Stackify’s tools to provide critical application performance and code insights so they can deploy better applications faster. In this article, we will introduce some of the best Java tutorials for beginners as well as advanced programmers. These tutorials will help you to learn and nourish your programming skills in Java. But first, we’ll provide some background on Java. Sun Microsystems developed the Java programming language in May 1995. It was introduced with the help of Java Development Kit (JDK), which contains a Java Runtime Environment (JRE). The JRE contains a Java Virtual Machine (JVM) and software tools such as Java application program interfaces (APIs) that help the development of Java applications. The first version of JDK was 1.0 and the latest release of Java Standard Edition is Java SE 10. Developers have defined various configurations of Java in order to fulfill the requirements of multiple platforms such as Java EE for Enterprise Applications and Java ME for Mobile Applications. Java is an object-oriented, cross-platform, powerful and robust programming language with support for security and strong memory management. It also provides support for a multithreading feature with which you can write code that can perform several functions simultaneously. Most developers choose Java as a programming language while creating an application or working on any project because of its amazing features. Java is widely used for developing web applications, software, and web portals as well. The Java source code is saved with .java extension. It is necessary to compile a Java program before its execution. Like other programming languages such as C++ and C, Java also allows you to store data in variables. These resources are described in this article. Codecademy is probably one of the best places to learn Java online. It is an education company, which focuses on enhancing the online learning experience of students. It provides free courses of Java programming language for both beginners and experienced programmers. Codecademy provides opportunities to work and implement the knowledge by offering different projects such as creating calculator and other applications. You need to create an account on codecademy.com in order to learn Java or any other concept. Apart from Java, you can also learn other programming languages also such as Android and Python. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows Udemy offers Java tutorials from complete beginner to expert level. It has now become one of the biggest platforms, which offers multiple online courses. You can learn several programming languages such as Java, C++, and C. Hence, Udemy is considered as best among other platforms to learn the Java programming language. It also teaches you how to set up an environment for Java programming. It provides free video lectures about how to start programming with Java. These lectures help students to learn about the concepts of Java in a much simpler and easier way as compared to the other tutorials. You are required to sign up on udemy.com in order to get access to all the free video lectures. There are around 58 free Java programming lectures available over Udemy. You can choose any or all of them to study. In case, you want to study more in-depth about Java, pay $11 (approx.) to become a premium member of Udemy. The premium members have access to around 736 classes. These classes will surely help you with all your queries and questions related to Java. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: If you are looking for some well-known tutorials to start coding in Java programming language, then Coursera is the perfect place to learn. You can learn about so many different topics such as data science, programming languages, and many others. It provides video classes for Java programming in multiple languages. The videos are available in languages such as English, Spanish, Russian, Chinese, and French. In addition to this, it also provides support for subtitles of videos. You can play subtitles in multiple languages such as Korean, Chinese, Spanish, German, Turkish, Vietnamese, and many others. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows Apart from providing a tutorial about the Java programming language, Java Code Geeks also provide free and downloadable examples of code. This feature of Java Code Geeks makes it different from other online Java tutorials. You can learn about different variants of Java under this platform such as core Java, desktop Java, and enterprise Java. You can find some downloadable documents or ebooks such as Java Rockstar, JPA Mini Book, JVM Troubleshooting Guide, JUnit Tutorial for Unit Testing and many others, in order to learn the Java programming language. You can also download entire Java projects from this tutorial. Apart from Java, it also provides quality information about other languages as well, including Android, Scala, Kotlin, JRuby etc. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: It is an interactive Java tutorial, which offers free online Java course. It gives you access to the world of Java. It provides all the support required to learn Java programming language for the beginner as well as an advanced programmer. It has a builtin tool to run and execute Java code, which helps you to learn about the errors that generally appears while programming. Apart from Java, you can also learn about C++, C, Python, HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript and many other languages. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: As you know, Oracle is one of the leading IT and software development organizations. It has developed a free online Java course platform. It guides you to create an application in a simple and easy manner. It has a great collection of working examples and several chapters. Some of the basic elements and topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  edX is one of the emerging online learning platforms that offers high-quality courses from the best institutions across the world. In 2012, Harvard University and MIT both laid down the foundation of edX. Here, you can learn to program with Java programming language. Most of the courses are free, and there is no need to enroll for them. However, you can choose the premium courses in order to get a certificate after the completion of the tutorial. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: SoloLearn has started a comprehensive guide for those who want to learn Java and nourish their programming skills. The entire tutorial is divided into 6 modules and 65 chapters. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: SoloLearn has also launched its mobile application, which supports multiple operating systems such as Android and iOS. You can download this application to your mobile in order to learn about Java. Apart from Java, it also offers courses in other languages such as HTML, JavaScript, C++ and many others. Aspiring developers or coders can learn Java programming language free. It provides you an option to sort topics according to the length and duration. This site also allows you to check the reviews of other enrolled students. It provides you with thousands of classes in other programs such as design, business, technology and many others. It has more than 4 million students connected and around 22,000 class tutorials. So, don’t wait, and join Skillshare right now to explore the world of knowledge. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: Java is among the best programming languages to enhance your value as a professional in the IT world. Codementor has a great collection of tutorial classes, language courses, and some valuable tips, which helps the beginner to start learning about any specific course. In this site, you can also discover some useful blogs about coding in Java and programming queries as well. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Program Creek is a well-designed tutorial website to learn Java and other programming languages as well. It provides good quality content about the concepts of Java. It has well- structured navigation, which helps beginners go through the website. You will also find useful articles written by some other entities. It also provides you with various examples of Java programming language, so that you can enhance your coding skills as well. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Java Beginners Tutorial is probably the best Java learning platform for beginners as well as experienced programmers. It is divided into three sections. The first section describes the fundamentals of programming in core Java. The second section describes examples of Java programming. In this section, you can implement the concepts learned in the first section. The last section provides you with a summary of what you have learned in previous sections. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  W3Resource is another online tutorial website to learn the Java programming language. The best way to learn is practice. This website provides some best examples of Java coding and exercises in order to implement the concepts. With these exercises, you can enhance your Java programming skills. It primarily focuses on the Java exercises. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: Tutorials Point is a very useful website. It is very helpful for both beginners as well as experienced programmers. With the help of this website, both can learn about the Java programming language very easily. This tutorial website provides good quality content about Java and other languages as well. In addition to this, it also provides you examples and exercises in order to implement the learned concepts.  You can study different examples and test yourself by executing multiple code examples. After completion of core Java concepts, you can learn advanced Java concepts and other essentials of Java language. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  As you know that Java programming language is quite difficult to learn, therefore, choosing the best website to learn is a very important thing. Studytonight is among the best tutorials to learn Java programming language as it provides you a tutorial course along with the examples. This tutorial site provides a platform, which helps you to know more about the Java programming with a lot of examples and practical problems. Apart from learning Java concepts, you can also test your coding skills in the topical test section of the website. Later, if you have any queries or questions, you can ask in the Q & A forum. You can also discuss your queries in this forum with your fellow users. Apart from Java, you can also learn about other languages such as C, C++, Python, DBMS, SQL, JSP, CSS and many others. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Looking for a platform that can help you with Java programming language from the basics? Then, you can go to the Udacity online Java programming course. This website provides you good quality content that makes it a perfect place for beginners who want to learn and explore more about the Java programming language. More than 160,000 students from all over the world (around 190 countries) have enrolled to learn different online courses from Udacity. Udacity provides some Nanodegree programs and free online courses. The list of courses includes the following: Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: Cave of Programming, developed by John Purcell, a software developer having 14 years of experience, is an online platform, which provides a free Java online course.  Cave of Programming is a good platform for beginners. You need to enroll in a course to get started. Provide your email address, and full name in order to sign up on caveofprogramming.com. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Treehouse is an emerging platform, which provides different online courses. It has more than 222 courses available for which around 180,000 students have enrolled till now. It is a good place for a beginner to start exploring the world of Java. It offers more than 1000 videosthat are prepared by the experts of different languages. Also, this website continuously refreshes its data so that it can maintain the requirements of the enrolled students. In order to get started, you need to create an account on the teamtreehouse.com. This tutorial website offers you 7 days free trial. After the free trial, you can purchase a basic membership of the Treehouse at $25 per month. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows: Programming by Doing is a comprehensive place to learn Java. Along with the course content, it also provides your assignments according to the topics. For example, after completing variables in Java, you will get 5 assignments. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  If you want to polish your Java skills, then Sanfoundary is the best place for you. It has a collection of more than 1000 questions that focus on almost all key concepts of the Java programming language. Hence, it helps both beginners as well as experienced programmers to learn and code in Java. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  JavaTpoint has a great collection of Java course content. It provides a Java programming tutorial for students as well as experienced professionals. The tutorial starts with an introduction of Java, and then you will learn about its different concepts. Apart from theoretical concepts, it also provides you with examples to learn how to implement the concepts.  Guru99 is another popular platform to learn the Java programming language. Beginners can easily learn about Java using this free tutorial website as it has a simple user interface and well-structured navigation pane. It also provides information about other languages. For example, SQL, VBScript, SAP and many others. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  This tutorial from beginnersbook.com will help you to learn the Java programming language. It has arranged all the topics from beginner to expert level. It is suitable as both a refresher, as well as experienced programmers. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  W3Schools has a good collection of Java course content. It starts from a very basic level so that any refresher candidate can learn about the programming language. It begins with the evolution of Java and then moves further to explain various features and concept of Java. Along with the course content, it also provides examples at the end of each topic. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  JournalDev tutorial offers you best content to learn the Java programming language. In this tutorial, you can learn about core Java and Java EE frameworks. It has split the Java concepts according to the difficulty level. For example, initially, you will learn about the simple introduction to Java and then moves to the OOP concept in Java. Further, you will learn about data types and operators. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Java is a general-purpose programming language. Hence, it is simple and easy to learn. Programiz is among the best tutorial websites that offers simple to read, easy to understand and quality content. The passionate developers of Programiz work continuously to enhance the user experience by explaining each concept clearly along with examples. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Jenkov provides a tutorial about core Java programming language. It also displays the new features added in Java 9. You can learn from a beginner level in this tutorial. The tutorial starts with an introduction to Java programming language. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  Lynda tutorial classes teach beginners along with experienced professionals how to program in Java, and how to use JDBC and how to integrate a MySQL database in Java code. Here, you will also learn about Java APIs, advanced class structures, and managing files as well as directories. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:   NetBeans provides a comprehensive guide to learn Java online free. It has arranged the course in three levels i.e. beginner, intermediate, and professional Java training and certifications. It also provides you with free access to some books and PDFs so that you can learn the concepts easily. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:   Simplilearn offers a one-stop training program, which helps you to begin with the concepts of Java. You can learn here beginner to advanced level of programming. Prior experience of coding is not required in order to begin this tutorial. Some key topics included in this tutorial are as follows:  App Performance Monitoring Code Profiling Error Tracking Centralized Logging App & Server Metrics Get the latest news, tips, and guides on software development. 816-888-5055 © 2019 Stackify