This is the first article of w3resource's Java programming tutorial. The aim of this tutorial is to make beginners conversant with Java programming language. Introduction to Java programming language Today Java programming language is one of the most popular programming languages which is used in critical applications like stock market trading system on BSE, banking systems or android mobile application. Java was developed by James Gosling from Sun Microsystems in 1995 as an object-oriented language for general-purpose business applications and for interactive, Web-based Internet applications. The goal was to provide a platform-independent alternative to C++. In other terms, it is architecturally neutral, which means that you can use Java to write a program that will run on any platform or device (operating system). Java program can run on a wide variety of computers because it does not execute instructions on a computer directly. Instead, Java runs on a Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Java is a general-purpose programming language that’s used in all industries for almost any type of application. If you master it, your chances of getting employed as a software developer will be higher than if you specialize in some domain-specific programming languages. The Java language is object-oriented (OO), which allows you to easily relate program constructs to objects from the real world. History of Java Releases This program runs fine under GNU Gcc compiler. We have tested this on a Ubuntu Linux system. But if you are using any other compiler like Turbo C++, the program needs to be modified to be executed successfully. For the sake of simplicity, we have not included that additional stuff here. The Java Program Life Cycle Java requires the source code of your program to be compiled first. It gets converted to either machine-specific code or a byte code that is understood by some run-time engine or a java virtual machine. Not only will the program be checked for syntax errors by a Java compiler, but some other libraries of Java code can be added (linked) to your program after the compilation is complete (deployment stage). Let’s get familiar with various terminologies used by java programmers. Advantages of Java programming language Summary In next session, we will discuss how to install JDK, Eclipse (IDE) and the basic structure of Java program. Compiling, running and debugging java program.