Create a simple Java program with Eclipse. Variables are one of the most basic essential building blocks of computer programs. We'll take a look at Java's basic types of variables here. The String class allows you to work with text in Java. In this tutorial we'll look at how to create loops in your code so that you can execute the same lines of code repeatedly. "For" loops allow you to control exactly how many times your loop executes. A tutorial on how to get user input in your program using the Scanner class. Classes (and objects) can contain data and subroutines, the latter being referred to as "methods". We'll look at methods here. Note: there's a little error right at the end here -- I copied person1.sayHello() but didn't change it to person2 .. A tutorial on how to implement the .equals method for your own classes. We can serialize entire arrays (or ArrayLists) just as easily as single objects. I'll also show you a good trick for serializing multiple objects individually in this tutorial, plus we'll talk a bit about type erasure. To finish off the stuff about serialization, we'll take a look at the transient keyword, plus a few things that might catch you out. Java only supports one method of passing values to methods, unlike, e.g. C++. We'll take a look at exactly how argument passing works in this tutorial (note: source code attached to this lecture; for other lectures, see the source attached to the final lecture). If you want to add items efficiently to somewhere in a list other than the beginning or end, you need a linked list. IMPORTANT NOTE: I had misunderstood something when making this video, as pointed out to me by "kidbabic" on YouTube among others. If you add or insert something to a LinkedList by specifying an index, the list has to iterate over all items in itself up to that point in order to find the insertion/deletion point. So adding or removing to LinkedList is only faster if you use an iterator, which you have ready pointing at the correct point. See the tutorial on iterators later on for more info. A tutorial on the most important new feature in JDK 8. Note, source code attached to this lecture. Source code for most other lectures is attached to the final lecture in this course. Learn to program in the Java programming language. This course assumes no prior programming knowledge, just a desire to learn to program.