 JavaScript is a programming language that adds interactivity to your website (for example games, responses when buttons are pressed or data is entered in forms, dynamic styling, animation). This article helps you get started with this exciting language and gives you an idea of what is possible. JavaScript is incredibly versatile. You can start small, with carousels, image galleries, fluctuating layouts, and responses to button clicks. With more experience, you'll be able to create games, animated 2D and 3D graphics, comprehensive database-driven apps, and much more! JavaScript itself is fairly compact yet very flexible. Developers have written a large variety of tools on top of the core JavaScript language, unlocking a vast amount of extra functionality with minimum effort. These include: Below we will introduce you to some aspects of the core language, and you'll also play with a few browser API features too. Have fun! The above section might sound really exciting, and so it should — JavaScript is one of the most lively web technologies, and as you start to get good at using it, your websites will enter a new dimension of power and creativity. Let's explain some of the core features of the JavaScript language, to give you a better understanding of how it all works. It is worth noting that these features are common to all programming languages, so if you master these fundamentals, you're well on your way to being able to program just about anything! After declaring a variable, you can give it a value: You can do both these operations on the same line if you wish: You can retrieve the value by just calling the variable by name: After giving a variable a value, you can later choose to change it: So why do we need variables? Well, variables are needed to do anything interesting in programming. If values couldn't change, then you couldn't do anything dynamic, like personalize a greeting message or change the image displayed in an image gallery. You can put comments into JavaScript code, just as you can in CSS: If your comment contains no line breaks, it's often easier to put it behind two slashes like this: The good news is you can define your own functions — in this next example we write a simple function which takes two numbers as arguments and multiplies them: Try running the above function in the console, then test with several arguments. For example: Note that is equivalent to It's just shorter. Now we've gone over a few JavaScript basics, let's add a few cool features to our example site to see what is possible. In this section, we'll add an additional image to our site using some more DOM API features, using some JavaScript to switch between the two when the image is clicked. Now when you first visit the site, it will ask you for your username, then give you a personalized message. You can change the name any time you like by pressing the button. As an added bonus, because the name is stored inside localStorage, it persists after the site is closed down, keeping the personalized message there when you next open the site!   Get the latest and greatest from MDN delivered straight to your inbox. If you haven’t previously confirmed a subscription to a Mozilla-related newsletter you may have to do so. Please check your inbox or your spam filter for an email from us. © 2005-2019 Mozilla and individual contributors.