 “Let’s just write less and do more!!” React Before we dive deeper into this ReactJS tutorial, let me first introduce you to some key terms you need to be familiar with. JSX Allows us to include ‘HTML’ in the same file along with ‘JavaScript’ (HTML+JS=JSX). Each component in React generates some HTML which is rendered by the DOM. ES5(ES2009) Webpack A module bundler which generates a build file joining all the dependencies. Babel Moving ahead in this ReactJS tutorial, I will be discussing about React’s Virtual DOM. I’mÂ sure all of you use Facebook. Now, imagine Facebook being split intoÂ components, eachÂ functionality is assigned to a specificÂ component and each component produces some HTML which is rendered as output by the DOM.Â Facebook Components To make things clear, referÂ toÂ the imageÂ below. Moving on to the core aspect of our ReactJS tutorial, let us discuss the building blocks ofÂ React. Before we start creating components, we need to include a few ‘import’ statements. The HTML generated by the component needs to be displayed on to the DOM, we achieve this by specifying a render function which tells React where exactly it needs to be rendered (displayed) on the screen. For this, we make a reference to an existing DOM node by passing a container element. In our example,Â we create a component named ‘MyComponent’ whichÂ displays a welcome message. We pass the component instance ‘<MyComponent\>’ to React along with its container Â ‘<div >’ tag. “All the user needs to do is, change the parent component’s state, while the changes are passed down to the child component through props.” Here the ‘App’ component has passed three ‘Message’ component instances with the prop ‘username’.Â All the three usernames are passed as an argument to the Message component. “And I believe state adds the greatest value to React.” Binding is needed explicitly, as by default the event is not bound to the component. While State is set only once inside the constructor it can however, be manipulated through “setState” command. Whenever we call “handleclick” function based on the previous state, “isToggleOn” function is switched between “active” and “inactive” state. We create an object called Timer ID and set an interval of 2 seconds. Now, this is the time interval based on which the page is refreshed.  There are several ways to install React. In short, we can either configure the dependencies manually or use the open source starter packs available on GitHub. The ‘create-react-app’ (CRA) tool maintained by Facebook itself is one such example. This is suitable for beginners who can focus on code, without manually having to deal withÂ transpiling tools like webpack and Babel. In this ReactJS tutorial I will be showing you how to install React using CRA tool. Step 1: Download NodeJS First go to the node.js website and download the .exe file according to your system configuration and install it. Step 2: Download the ‘create-react-app’ Tool from GitHubÂ Step 3: Open cmd prompt and navigate to the project directory. Now, enter the following commands Step 4:->Â npm startÂ This is how the file structure should look once you have successfully installed React. This brings us to the end of this ReactJS tutorial blog. Hope each and every aspect I discussed above is clear to you to all. To learn more check out our courses on React. Got a question for us? Please mention it in the comments section and we will get back to you. OR