ReactJS is one of the most popular new web frameworks, used by many innovative companies. ReactJS is a Javascript library for creating user interfaces. It is the view layer in MVC (Model, View, Controller). ReactJS gives you a template language and some function hooks to output HTML. It is designed so that your program will track “states”, so you don’t have to trace program flow, by tying functionality directly to markup and packages it in a portable, self contained “component”. These features have made it immensely popular for web development. As a result, many well-known websites have picked it up. AdRoll is a marketing platform enabling brands of all sizes to create personalized ad campaigns based on their own website data. Airbnb is an online community marketplace for people to list, discover, and book accommodations around the world. Asana is a web and mobile application designed to help teams improve communication, organization and collaboration. Atlassian is a leading provider of collaboration software for teams with products including JIRA, Confluence, HipChat, Bitbucket and Stash. CloudFlare is a web performance and security company that provides online services to protect and accelerate websites online. Dropbox’s mission is to provide a home for everyone’s most important information and bring it to life. BBC is a large-scale broadcasting corporation that offers content to inform, educate, and entertain people. Bleacher Report is a digital media company based in America, delivering digital media content on sports around the world. Facebook is an online social networking service that enables its users to connect with friends and family as well as make new connections. They developed ReactJS. The biggest social network in the world, with 2.5 billion users. Flipboard is the world’s most popular social magazine. It gives people a single place to keep up on the topics, news and events. Imgur is an image sharing service. They share a lot of memes. Instagram is a free photo sharing application that enables its users to take photos, apply filters, and share them on social networks. Kissmetrics delivers key insights and timely interactions to turn visitors into customers. Aim to provide a free world class education for anyone, anywhere. All videos are created by one man. Mattermark is a data platform for venture capital companies to quantify signals of growing and potentially lucrative start-ups. Netflix is engaged in the internet delivery of TV shows and movies directly on TVs, computers, and mobile devices. They are so popular that people use VPNs to be able to use the US version. Founded in 1997, they are one of the first to understand that online piracy was a thing because digitalisation made traditional payment systems for creative content like writing, music, and tv shows defunct and peer-to-peer provided the instant access people crave, and also one of the first to be able to successfully create a new system to monetise it. Now they even produce their own TV shows, like the renowned ‘House of Cards’, based on analytics of what their users liked to watch. OkCupid is an online dating website that uses quizzes and multiple-choice questions to find a match for the user. PayPal provides online payment solutions to its users worldwide. The origin of the infamous Paypal Mafia that has founded companies like Youtube, Palantir, and Tesla, all giants in their own right. Real time video feeds enabling individuals to see the world through another person’s eyes. They made long length live video happen. Podio is a social collaboration tool that allows users to build apps and set up workspaces to support their preferred workflows. On-demand delivery from every restaurant and store in your city. They are massive in the US. Maybe they will be the ones to find a sustainable business model for on-demand food delivery for individuals. The best new products, every day. A platform for online communities to submit links, create content, and have discussions about whatever interests them. Reddit starts content trends on the web, and has an almost uniquely virulent culture. They are well known for their AMA sub-reddit. Salesforce is a global cloud computing company that develops CRM solutions and provides business software on a subscription basis. Scribd is a digital library, featuring e-book subscription services on iPhone, iPad, Kindle Fire and Nook Tablet. Squarespace is a SaaS-based Content Management System (CMS) offering a website builder, store builder, blogging platform, & hosting service. Tesla Motors was started by a group of Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and strives to create a revolution. This electric car company was started by the legendary Elon Musk, formerly of Paypal. Venmo offers an app that allows users to share and make payments with friends for a variety of services from. Big in America, they are the reason your bank’s mobile app now has a ‘pay someone’ feature. Will the incumbents win here? WhatsApp is a proprietary, cross-platform, free instant messaging subscription service for smartphones. Encrypted end-to-end, they are privacy advocates who practice what they preach. They have over 800 million users too. Zendesk is a software development firm providing a SaaS suite that offers help desk ticketing, issue tracking, and customer service support. Learn more about our corporate training workshops.