To get started with React go through the tutorial made by facebook: A JavaScript library for building user interfaces - React React JS is a Javascript framework which is used for simplifying the process of front end web development. In a nutshell it does what jQuery / Angular does. But the fundamentals and way of doing things differ. Final Thoughts React makes it painless to create interactive UIs. Design simple views for each state in your application, and React will efficiently update and render just the right components when your data changes. Declarative views make your code more predictable and easier to debug. Build encapsulated components that manage their own state, then compose them to make complex UIs. Since component logic is written in JavaScript instead of templates, you can easily pass rich data through your app and keep state out of the DOM. REACT doesn’t make assumptions about the rest of the technology stack, so you can develop new features in React without rewriting existing code. React can also render on the server using Node and power mobile apps using React Native. History React was created by Jordan Walke, a software engineer at Facebook. He was influenced by XHP, an HTML component framework for PHP. It was open-sourced at JSConf US in May 2013. React Native, which enables native iOS, Android and UWP development with React, was announced at Facebook's React.js Conf in February 2015 and open-sourced in March 2015. It is maintained by Facebook, Instagram and a community of individual developers and corporations. According to JavaScript analytics service Libscore, React is currently being used on the websites of Netflix, Imgur, Bleacher Report, Feedly, Airbnb, SeatGeek, HelloSign, Walmart, and others. React allows developers to create large web applications that use data which can change over time, without reloading the page. Its main goal is to be fast, simple and scalable. React processes only user interface in applications. This corresponds to View in the Model-View-Controller (MVC) template, and can be used in combination with other JavaScript libraries or frameworks in MVC, such as AngularJS. A JavaScript library for building user interfaces - React React is an open-source JavaScript library developed by Facebook for building user interfaces. It's used for handling view layer for web and mobile apps. ReactJS used to create reusable UI components. It is currently one of the most popular JavaScript libraries in the it field and it has strong foundation and large community behind it.If you learn ReactJS, you need to have knowledge of JavaScript, HTML5 and CSS. ReactJS Features: ReactJS Advantages: Regards, learn ReactJS Oniline Training in India React js is javascript based UI Library developed at Facebook, to create an interactive, stateful & reusable UI components. It is one of the most popular javascript frameworks that is created for handling the presentation layer for the web and mobile apps. Learn full course of ReactJS, React Js is all about to rendering view, that’s it. It can be redered at server side or client side. It is a library, not the framework, which is only concern about rendering the view part in efficient way. When changes occur then instead of re rendering the whole page, it will load the particular portion of the page/template