🔥 Totally updated with the latest best practices in React 16.3, ES6, Async + Await, React Router 4 and more. Free update to all 26,857 of you who have already purchased the course. Enjoy! Anyone looking to modernize their front end development skill set. If you are already an experienced JavaScript developer, you will simply complete the course a little more quickly. Not sure if it's for you? 100% money back if you don't think it's a good fit 💰 Each video breaks down a specific part of React and allows for quick referencing in the future. Just under 5 hours of video — learn React in an afternoon or two! Join 26,857 other React.js Learners 26,857 already sold! With a team license you can buy a number of spots to allocate to employees. The spots do not expire and you can fill the spots via the dashboard whenever you like. Perfect for on-boarding new hires, interns and contractors to your tech stack. The team license includes everything in the Master Package above. All prices in USD Hundreds of thousands of developers from small agencies to large companies use React to deliver top notch experiences in their apps and dynamic website components. This series was just totally re-recorded in March 2018 to reflect the latest changes and best practices in React 16.3, React Router 4 and Firebase 3. There is no time limit, and no monthly/yearly fee to keep access. Log in whenever you like and the course will be there for you! Sure do! In your course dashboard you can download an official certificate of completion that can be used to be reimbursed by your employer or land that dream job you are applying for. Once you buy a package, you will be mailed access to a course viewer area where you can stream all the videos. Buyers of the Master Package will also be able to download them for offline viewing. All the videos were recorded at 1920×1080. Success! You will receive an email with your access links + downloads within a few minutes. In the mean time, would you mind sharing via a tweet, follow or like?