AC101 Paul G. Allen Center for Computer Science and Engineering UW Computer Science & Engineering (CSE) educates students to become leaders in the design and implementation of the computing systems that touch every aspect of modern society. CSE is widely recognized as one of the top programs in the world, with passionate faculty bringing the latest advances into the classroom and the lab. CSE offers two undergraduate degrees: Computer Science (through the College of Arts & Sciences) and Computer Engineering (through the College of Engineering). While the degree requirements differ in some details, undergraduate majors working toward either degree have the same broad opportunities to take the wide array of courses that CSE offers. Many of our graduates go on to careers at the world's great technology companies, from the largest industry titans to the smallest start-ups. Others join innovative companies and non-profit organizations outside the traditional computing industry to use software, hardware, and data to solve the world's greatest challenges. Still others go on to challenging graduate programs in a variety of fields. At the graduate level, CSE offers (1) an integrated Master's program for some of our undergraduate majors seeking a deeper education before leaving campus, (2) an evening Master's program for currently employed software professionals, and (3) a Ph.D. program for students seeking a research career. The field of computing is broad and growing, and CSE's course catalog reflects this breadth. Beyond the popular introductory programming courses taken by thousands of students from every major on campus, our courses cover everything from the mathematical foundations of what computers can and cannot do; to hands-on experiences building software and hardware artifacts with a range of programming languages and tools; to advanced courses in software engineering, human-computer interaction, computer graphics and animation, artificial intelligence, machine learning, large-scale data management, natural language processing, computer networking, computational biology, robotics, computer security and privacy, and much more. Computers are the most flexible and powerful machines ever created. While the applications of computing continue to grow and change, the core magic of CSE is timeless: computer scientists and engineers combine creative problem-solving, rigorous design, and the creation of algorithms, software, and hardware systems to build solutions that change the world. The Department of Computer Science and Engineering offers the following programs of study: The core requirements of the two undergraduate majors are similar. The computer science major may be more appropriate for students who want to earn a double major with another College of Arts and Sciences program, who want the additional flexibility of the computer science requirements (the computer engineering major has more required courses and fewer electives), or who may be primarily interested in the design of software systems and applications. The computer engineering major includes a general foundation in engineering fundamentals to enable interdisciplinary work with other departments in the College of Engineering and the University as a whole.  It may be more appropriate for students who are interested in building systems that include both hardware and software components and that must be engineered to meet a variety of cost and performance constraints. Applicants are considered in three groups - Entering Freshmen, Currently Enrolled UW Students, and Entering Transfers. Admission is capacity constrained. Completion of minimum requirements does not guarantee admission. 87-90 credits: CSE general-purpose laboratories support the diverse set of hardware and software platforms required for a cutting-edge education in the field. CSE special-purpose laboratories provide tailored support for activities such as mobile robotics, computer graphics, digital design, motion capture, embedded systems, laser scanning, educational technology, networking, and artificial intelligence. The Allen Center is one of the finest computer science and computer engineering facilities in the nation. All of its capabilities are available to all CSE students. Program Overview Undergraduate Program Graduate Program Time Schedule Academic Planning Worksheet Departmental Web Page Departmental Faculty Course Descriptions