The machine can be described as a finite state control device (meaning that it has a finite number of states that control its operations), with a tape of unlimited length, divided into squares, upon which symbols may be written or stored. A sequence of actions can take place when a symbol is scanned by a read/write head and the machine is in a certain state. The sequence of actions is the "program." At any point in time, the finite state control will be in one state and the tape head will be scanning a single symbol, or square, on the tape. On the basis of this symbol and the current state, it will write a symbol on the square, or choose to leave the symbol alone, move the tape one square to the left or the right, and change to a "new" (possibly the same) state. All this constitutes a "move" of the basic machine. The key to answering the question lay in the provision of a method, and this is what Turing's machine was to provide. The machine would be given a set of instructions to carry out some process or procedure, and the procedure would be carried out in order to answer a particular question. A different procedure would be provided for each problem. However, one could imagine a procedure for each particular problem being written on a single Turing Machine that would interpret the instructions to mimic or emulate the other machines.This would be a Universal Turing Machine, capable of carrying out any problem or program supplied to it. An algorithm is a mathematical procedure that comes to a halt after a finite number of steps, no matter what the values given for the variables. A mathematical procedure is one that can be performed mechanically, without risk of unexpected situations, once the value of the variables has been provided. A decision algorithm is one that gives a "yes" or "no" answer to a particular problem in a finite number of steps. A problem is said to be "algorithmically decideable" if a decision algorithm exists for it. Encyclopedia.com gives you the ability to cite reference entries and articles according to common styles from the Modern Language Association (MLA), The Chicago Manual of Style, and the American Psychological Association (APA). Within the “Cite this article” tool, pick a style to see how all available information looks when formatted according to that style. Then, copy and paste the text into your bibliography or works cited list. Because each style has its own formatting nuances that evolve over time and not all information is available for every reference entry or article, Encyclopedia.com cannot guarantee each citation it generates. Therefore, it’s best to use Encyclopedia.com citations as a starting point before checking the style against your school or publication’s requirements and the most-recent information available at these sites: http://www.mla.org/style http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html http://apastyle.apa.org/ Encyclopedia.com gives you the ability to cite reference entries and articles according to common styles from the Modern Language Association (MLA), The Chicago Manual of Style, and the American Psychological Association (APA). Within the “Cite this article” tool, pick a style to see how all available information looks when formatted according to that style. Then, copy and paste the text into your bibliography or works cited list. Because each style has its own formatting nuances that evolve over time and not all information is available for every reference entry or article, Encyclopedia.com cannot guarantee each citation it generates. Therefore, it’s best to use Encyclopedia.com citations as a starting point before checking the style against your school or publication’s requirements and the most-recent information available at these sites: http://www.mla.org/style http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html http://apastyle.apa.org/ Copyright The Columbia University Press Encyclopedia.com gives you the ability to cite reference entries and articles according to common styles from the Modern Language Association (MLA), The Chicago Manual of Style, and the American Psychological Association (APA). Within the “Cite this article” tool, pick a style to see how all available information looks when formatted according to that style. Then, copy and paste the text into your bibliography or works cited list. Because each style has its own formatting nuances that evolve over time and not all information is available for every reference entry or article, Encyclopedia.com cannot guarantee each citation it generates. Therefore, it’s best to use Encyclopedia.com citations as a starting point before checking the style against your school or publication’s requirements and the most-recent information available at these sites: http://www.mla.org/style http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html http://apastyle.apa.org/ Encyclopedia.com gives you the ability to cite reference entries and articles according to common styles from the Modern Language Association (MLA), The Chicago Manual of Style, and the American Psychological Association (APA). Within the “Cite this article” tool, pick a style to see how all available information looks when formatted according to that style. Then, copy and paste the text into your bibliography or works cited list. Because each style has its own formatting nuances that evolve over time and not all information is available for every reference entry or article, Encyclopedia.com cannot guarantee each citation it generates. Therefore, it’s best to use Encyclopedia.com citations as a starting point before checking the style against your school or publication’s requirements and the most-recent information available at these sites: http://www.mla.org/style http://www.chicagomanualofstyle.org/tools_citationguide.html http://apastyle.apa.org/