Q&A for work. A dedicated place to share your team’s knowledge. What is a Turing machine and why do people keep mentioning it? My IBM PC is all I need to do my computation! Why does anyone care about these machines? The reason that Turing Machines are a big deal has to do with the study of classical Computing Science or Theory of Computation type stuff.  It's basically about analyzing the general properties of a computer, such as what theoretical abilities and limitations a computer has, as well as what we mean when we talk about "computing" something. And a sketch: My IBM PC is all I need to do my computation! The (generally accepted) "Church-Turing thesis"  asserts that every device or model of computation is no more powerful than a Turing machine. So, many theoretical problems (e.g. classes like P and NP, the notion of "polynomial-time algorithm", and so on) are formally stated in terms of a Turing machine, although, of course, they can be adapted to other models as well. (For example, sometimes it can be convenient to think of computation in terms of the lambda calculus, or combinatory logic, or whatever... they are all equivalent in power to each other, and to your IBM PC as well.) So there you go: people talk about Turing machines because it is a precise and full specified way to say what a "computer" is, without having to describe every detail of the CPU's architecture, its constraints, and so on. First, some background: The operation of the ribosome is simple: As you can see, this is a very simple Turing Machine that performs the most complex operation - nature itself! A Turing-machine is a theoretical machine that can be used to reason about the limits of computers.  Simply put, it is an imaginary computer with infinite memory. Why would people who design airplanes care about the Wright Brothers, or the science behind "lift" that lets fixed wing aircraft fly? Alan Turing is lauded as the father of modern computing. The Turing Machine is the precursor to all modern computers. The Theory of Computability was my hardest class in college, but I'm glad I took it. It made me think about things I never would have, or think about things in ways I never would have, and those are good things. A Turing machine is an abstract machine capable of computation. From Wikipedia: Turing machines are basic abstract symbol-manipulating devices which, despite their simplicity, can be adapted to simulate the logic of any computer algorithm. They were described in 1936 by Alan Turing. Turing machines are not intended as a practical computing technology, but a thought experiment about the limits of mechanical computation. Thus they were not actually constructed. Studying their abstract properties yields many insights into computer science and complexity theory. A Turing machine that is able to simulate any other Turing machine is called a Universal Turing machine (UTM, or simply a universal machine). A more mathematically-oriented definition with a similar "universal" nature was introduced by Alonzo Church, whose work on lambda calculus intertwined with Turing's in a formal theory of computation known as the Church-Turing thesis. The thesis states that Turing machines indeed capture the informal notion of effective method in logic and mathematics, and provide a precise definition of an algorithm or 'mechanical procedure'. Turing machine is an abstract machine that can operate on a sequence of data and can change its own state as well as the data while operating, according to some logic. This is a concept that forms the basis of algorithms, stored programs, and computation in general. It provides good insights and abstractions if you are dealing with algorithms, states, data etc. Food for thought, for most. Turing machine is equivalent to an algorithm. It halts when it accepts a string, rejects or enters an infinite loop when it doesn't accept the string. Tape acts as a memory, transition rules acts as 'if then else' conditions Thanks for contributing an answer to Stack Overflow! Required, but never shown Required, but never shown asked viewed active 1 year, 1 month ago