This is an answer we’ve heard before — after all, most leaders wax over the stories of their careers with a thick coat of grit and determination. And whether it takes the form of an inspirational quote splashed across a striking stock photo or an encouraging blog post about the startup grind, discipline is always cast as a recurring character when entrepreneurs talk about success. But while the discussion around this quality is heavy on colorful mandates, it’s also often lacking in detail and depth. Very few go beyond platitudes about working hard to move into more nitty-gritty tactics for bringing an intense discipline to every facet of the company building process. Collin, however, is a rare exception. Her quiet focus and obsession with efficiency has been the propellor beneath the surface, helping to power Front’s impressive trajectory. From her pristine email templates and clockwork communication habits to her insanely fast fundraise process and carefully crafted calendar, discipline is the current that runs through all aspects of this founder's life. In this exclusive interview, Collin dives deeper to put tactical teeth on an entrepreneurial trope, sharing why a founder’s discipline matters more than vision. She describes her approach to communication, time management, fundraising and team building, unveiling impactful practices and sharing the actual emails she relies on to stay on track. Many early-stage teams pour hundreds of hours into ensuring that the product roadmap and company mission are as crisp as possible. Painting a picture of potential is a way to put a stake in the ground — and it’s often a helpful tactic for papering over initial shortcomings. But that’s not how Front went out into the world. “At first, Front wasn’t that impressive or even that good. I remember at Y Combinator someone told me that we were the best company in the batch and I was convinced he misspoke, that he had confused us with another startup,” says Collin. “Four years ago, I didn’t have a clue of how big we’d be today or a plan for getting there — it’s been much more of an evolution.” Collin breaks down the most important elements of a founder’s discipline by offering a set of questions to run through for a focused assessment: Each of these four buckets can be optimized and infused with extra rigor. But in Collin’s experience, few show up to do this additional mental labor. “Many founders get caught up in the day-to-day churn of running a startup,” she says. “Applying a disciplined mentality to everything you do, whether it’s an email you send to your team, a presentation for investors or a company offsite, is deceptively simple — but it’s so impactful.” As fledgling startups struggle to find their footing, tackling high visibility metrics becomes the main focus. But in Collin’s experience, simply pursuing progress isn’t enough — an extra dose of discipline around communication provides the accountability that makes those goals more likely to materialize. For Collin, that discipline lies in the three carefully constructed emails she has sent with an almost frightening regularity since Front’s earliest days: a weekly update to the entire company, a note to her direct reports and a monthly update to her investors. Read on for a closer look at how she crafts them and why they’ve been critical to Front’s results. As with most startups, Front’s early days were marked by an obsession with revenue. “We had no excuse if those numbers weren’t trending upwards. So I started sending a daily email to the team to bring that metric front and center. It explained how much revenue we added yesterday, what we did well and what didn't go so well,” says Collin. “In the first few years, I wrote this completely on my own and it probably took me about an hour,” says Collin. “This may seem like a lot of time for an early-stage founder to spend on an internal note every single week, but it was vital. Amid all the growing pains, people knew exactly what success meant and evaluated everything they did through the lens of ‘How can we make that number go up?’” For Collin, there’s power — and pressure — from this kind of transparency. “Sharing the good, the bad and the ugly provides accountability and a forcing function. If you see numbers that are less than great, you’ll be tempted to make an excuse, point to another bright spot, or hold off on sharing until things improve,” she says. “Or you might shift gears and work on another project as a distraction. But you can’t afford to do that.” As another exercise in accountability, a different email flies out of Collin’s inbox at 10am sharp every Monday morning: a note to her direct reports. Another one of Collin’s favorite tricks for bringing discipline to her communication is the update email she sends to Front’s investors. “I sent the same note every month for years, and only changed to quarterly after our Series B,” she says. Collin’s faith in the power of demonstrating your focus to investors has only increased now that she’s on the other side of the table. Asking Collin about how she manages her time prompts a frank confession: “I am really crazy when it comes to my calendar. I’m hypervigilant about making sure that I spend time on the right things,” she says. To give further insight into how she spends her time, Collin shares five tips for bringing discipline to a crowded calendar: 1) Block and tackle: create a window for email and opt out of notifications. “I have two 30-minute dedicated slots in my calendar every day to go through my inbox and I try my hardest to not look at it outside of those times,” says Collin. To help stay on track, she’s quit notifications altogether, save for her calendar reminders. “I’ve disabled them for email, chat and other tools on both my phone and my desktop. My calendar’s on so I don’t miss events, but opting out of everything else has magnified my efficiency and significantly reduced stress,” she says. “I found it so helpful that I challenged the entire Front team to quit their notifications for a week as well. And now during the weekends, I even log out of all of my apps so that temptation isn’t there.” 2) Step back and clear your head. 3) Set a date with yourself on Friday to organize the next week. “I need to know exactly what I want to achieve, and that requires additional prep, which is often the first thing to go for many when things get hectic,” Collin says. Here’s a look at her process: “I have a 15-minute ‘Review My Calendar’ slot every Friday afternoon. I revisit our quarterly goals and a few top-of-mind topics. I then look at my calendar for the upcoming week to make sure it matches up,” Collin says. “For example, hiring is a huge push for me right now so I need to spend about a third of my time interviewing executives. When I look at my calendar and it’s packed with product meetings or I only have one interview scheduled, then I know that I’m not doing enough to make progress, so I’ll add a sourcing session in.” Collin finds this exercise serves as another fail-safe to make sure she’s allocating enough time to the right things. “This also dovetails with the weekly email I send to my direct reports. If I tell them that my goal for the week is to decide what the new sales organization will look like, then I better have a few personal working sessions and key meetings dedicated to that,” she says. 4) Analyze your time to match intention with reality. Below is a more recent example of the exact analysis she pours over every week: “At the end of every single week I have my EA send me an analysis of my calendar,” says Collin. “It’s split by the type of activity, such as interviewing, selling, managing and so on. This is how I flagged that I need to step up my hiring efforts. I also look at it on a team level to see if I’m spending too much time with any one group and neglecting another.” 5) Take the time to write it down. Collin has two 30-minute blocks for writing on her calendar every week and aims to publish an article on her Medium page about every two months. “I will be honest that I keep these writing slots only about 75% of the time,” she says. “The discipline is more around achieving the result of publishing every other month, so I force myself to find a topic if necessary.” While her email habits and time management tactics are impressive, Collin is perhaps best known in the tech world for her fundraising chops. To extend that spirit of sharing, Collin pulls back the curtain on how she built the muscle required to pull off these fundraising feats: 1) Develop relationships before you need them, but don’t be afraid to hold back. While these fast fundraising cycles may seem to be the stuff of startup kismet, Collin is quick to point out that she was only able to raise so quickly because she put in the legwork upfront. In her eyes, these rounds weren’t the sum of five to ten days of pitching, but rather the culmination of four years of careful chess moves. That’s because after nabbing Front’s initial seed round, Collin maintained a fundraising mindset. “I started proactively building relationships with partners at firms that I liked, meeting with each of them every three to six months. Once we were raising, I could lean on those relationships to get a partner meeting right away,” she says. “But what’s more is I knew that whoever invested in our Series A would land a board seat, so getting to know partners early on meant I’d be in a better position to decide who to work with.” Early-stage founders looking to replicate this tactic should note that it’s about quality, not quantity. “I was focused on about five partners. Going really deep with just one investor puts all your eggs in one basket, but cultivating 20 relationships would be distracting,” says Collin. These ongoing conversations with investors should move beyond shop talk. “Once you're in a fundraising process, it all happens in a flash. So for me, these meetings weren’t simply a report on how Front was doing, but rather a chance to get to know the partner. I asked them what they liked and didn’t like about investing or what they did outside of work,” she says. Collin cautions that founders need to be thoughtful when approaching these conversations. “Investors are always hunting for signals about your company, but remember that you get to control where the conversation goes and what they’re able to pick up on,” she says. “Anytime I was asked about our revenue or number of customers, I always shared something a bit lower than our actual figures. I wanted to have some flexibility in case things didn’t go as expected, but it also enabled me to save the good nuggets for when we were actually raising.” 2) Raise or don’t raise — don’t let it drag. As with most things, when it comes to fundraising, timing is everything. But deciding when to pull the trigger requires navigating that tricky space between art and science. Collin also leaned on open lines of communications with investors to speed along her Series B round. “One of the partners I was talking to casually mentioned that he’d invest in our next round. I took him seriously — and I used that one term sheet as leverage to compress the timeline for everyone else. The discipline it took to sink time into that relationship and then full-on commit to raising is what put me in a position to set the terms and move quickly,” she says. To illustrate what “feeling good” looks like, Collin shares two examples: 3) Remember that it will be stressful no matter what — and prepare for the sting. Even though Front had a legendary Series B round, Collin is quick to point out that it was far from painless. “I’m always getting comments from people about how they are so envious of our quick rounds and how easy it must have been. But every would-be founder needs to know that it’s always going to be stressful. Even though we had one of the smoothest fundraises imaginable, it was still incredibly tough,” she says. Collin attributes this stress to the sting of rejection — something that never gets easier. “When people tell you they don't want to invest in your company, that’s one of the hardest things that you can hear as a founder,” she says. “When a customer doesn’t want to buy your product or a great leader turns down an offer, there are always other things you can point to, such as price or salary. But when an investor passes, they’re telling you ‘I don't think that your company could be bigger than it is,’ and that always hurts.” 4) Bring discipline to your deck by focusing on the story. As for the pitch decks that earned all of those terms sheets (and racked up millions of views on the internet afterwards), Collin shares how they came together — and why discipline was essential. “There's a temptation to stuff every metric you can find in the deck. But you have to be really disciplined in the narrative you present to investors in order to boost your odds. Think of the pitch as a story waiting to be told, not a set of slides to be strung together. I’m not here to report what Front did in the past four years, I’m here to paint a picture,” she says. 5) Do diligence on your investors. Share some examples of when they've been caring. What types of things did they typically challenge you on? Was it helpful? Tell me about a time when they disappointed you. Did you feel like you could have an open discussion and give feedback? Looking back on the early days of your working relationship, how would you manage or interact with them differently, knowing what you know now? “This high employee engagement is a result of the transparency we’ve cultivated and the commitment we have to making people feel like they have an impact,” says Collin. Outside of the weekly email connecting everyone to the main metric they’re working towards, Front has smaller initiatives to highlight impact, such as using ‘Fronteer of the Week’ and ‘Stumble of the Week’ as opportunities to share wins and learnings (and award trophies crafted out of legos). The startup also embraces fun (and regularly scheduled) events, such as board game nights every month or the musicals that the entire Front team puts on once a year. The most recent productions included stagings of ‘Les Mis’ (with Collin of course taking on the role of Cosette) and a Disney medley. However, Collin doesn’t place too much weight on Front’s approach to cultural events. “Many startups focus so much of their team building efforts on events or offsites and start to lose sight of the core of their culture: hiring people that align with your values,” she says. When it comes to getting a startup off the ground, time is the most precious resource and momentum is the objective. That’s why a founder’s discipline and willingness to dig in can be more determinative than the ability to project a sweeping vision for the company. To bring more discipline to your daily life, apply these takeaways from Collin’s personal habits: