 Backstory  Last year, I took CSE 142 with Reges during Autumn quarter and the following quarter I took CSE 143 with Reges as well. After taking CSE 143, I realized every quarter Reges taught a CS class, he would send out an email with a link to a spreadsheet to display how your grade was calculated like this one. Out of curiosity, I then tried to look for older spreadsheets from other quarters as the URL with the spreadsheet came in a very predictable format:   So an example of a valid format would be:   To figure out where your scores were, you had to put your UW Student ID into a String in jGrasp or any other IDE and hash it to get the unique code that mapped to your grades.  Building a Parser   Findings  Here are a list of facts that I have complied in conducting my analysis on looking at the last 10 years of CSE 142 and 143 taught by Reges: 4426 students have taken CSE 142 across 10 different quarters with Reges. 3572 students have taken CSE 143 across 15 different quarters with Reges. The top 4% of the class get a 4.0 in both 142 and 143. For 142, the average cutoff tends to be about 96% where as in 143, the average cutoff tends to be a slightly lower 95%. 1607 students have taken CSE 142 and CSE 143 in consecutive quarters with Reges. Unsurprisingly, with regards to predictive success, CSE 142 was a moderate indicator of success in 143 with a .52 correlation.  Enhanced Visualizations   Conclusions  All in all, I enjoyed putting together this project even though I’ve finished the intro courses. Whether you’re a prospective major or a senior currently in CS or just interested in how these intro courses work, I hope you’ve enjoyed this post. I will be sure to continuously update this as the quarters go by. Data excites me, so if you have any data sheets in particular to contribute or if you want me to take at something in particular, feel free to contact me or even contribute to the GitHub project.  Edit: Formatting. Lol, send this to Reges! He'll enjoy it. Which file are you referring to? I'm looking through my project to see where it might be. Also, this is only if you've taken it with Reges as I don't think many other instructors do this besides Reges and Stepp. This is amazing, thanks! Can this be used to find the mean GPA for a certain year? It's currently not a feature, but it can easily be implemented. 13.3k Subscribers 218 Online The Unofficial Subreddit of the University of Washington Overview Welcome to the unofficial subreddit of the University of Washington! This subreddit is a place to post links and stories relating to events and happenings in and around the University of Washington. Before posting a question, consider reading some of the sidebar links, or searching the sub.  There's a good chance there's already been a discussion on what you want to ask! Useful Links UW Website Subreddit Wiki - Feel Free to Contribute! General FAQ and Information Post by a Foster's alum (not business specific) Prospective CSE Major FAQ HCDE Advisor AMA Engineering Admission Statistics (through 2014) Getting into Closed Classes Related Subreddits /r/pac12 /r/uwgrad