WARNING: This Standards-Track document is Experimental. Publication as an XMPP Extension Protocol does not imply approval of this proposal by the XMPP Standards Foundation. Implementation of the protocol described herein is encouraged in exploratory implementations, but production systems are advised to carefully consider whether it is appropriate to deploy implementations of this protocol before it advances to a status of Draft. The integration with XMPP provides a transport suitable for both    existing DNS clients and native XMPP applications seeking access to    the DNS. This specification addresses the following requirements: The DoX protocol is extremely simple: Sending a DNS query is done by sending an <iq/> get over the stream from the requestor to the resolver. If the resolver supports the dns namespace, it MUST return an IQ-result, which contains the DNS response: If the resolver does not support the dns namespace, it MUST return a <service-unavailable/> error: Support could also be pre-arranged between parties by putting a resolver at a known JID, in which case the requestor can just start sending queries to the resolver Running DNS over XMPP relies on the security of the underlying XMPP    transport, therefore all queries and responses MUST use TLS or equivalent connection security.  This mitigates classic amplification attacks for UDP-    based DNS. The TLS connection provides transport security for the interaction    between the DoX resolver and requestor, but it does not provide the    response integrity of DNS data provided by DNSSEC.  DNSSEC and DoX    are independent and fully compatible protocols, each solving    different problems.  The use of one does not diminish the need nor    the usefulness of the other.  It is the choice of a requestor to either    perform full DNSSEC validation of answers or to trust the DoX resolver    to do DNSSEC validation and inspect the AD (Authentic Data) bit in    the returned message to determine whether an answer was authentic or    not. In the absence of DNSSEC information, a DoX resolver can give a requestor    invalid data in response to a DNS query.  A DoX capable requestor MUST discard any responses not specifically requested, this prohibition does not guarantee protection against invalid data, but it does reduce the risk. The Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol (XMPP) is defined in the XMPP Core (RFC 6120) and XMPP IM (RFC 6121) specifications contributed by the XMPP Standards Foundation to the Internet Standards Process, which is managed by the Internet Engineering Task Force in accordance with RFC 2026. Any protocol defined in this document has been developed outside the Internet Standards Process and is to be understood as an extension to XMPP rather than as an evolution, development, or modification of XMPP itself. First draft. END