Legal Dictionary The Law Dictionary for Everyone Gerrymandering is the act of manipulating the boundaries of an electoral district, so as to give one political party more election districts than the other party and, as a result, more votes. Gerrymandering can also be used to help or hurt a demographic in particular, such as the elderly, or the poor. While the process is technically illegal, it is also a difficult thing to prove. Because a state’s legislature is almost always controlled by only one party, it goes without saying that it would be in that party’s best interests to establish district lines in such a way as to either gain more seats than the opposition has, or to hold on to the seats that they already have. To explore this concept, consider the following gerrymandering definition. Verb Origin 1812                Americanism Gerrymandering is the illegal act of drawing electoral district lines in such a way so as to give the gerrymandering party more votes in an election. Several forms of manipulation have been used during gerrymandering’s history. As an example of gerrymandering, one party may try to force the opposition into the least number of districts by expanding its own districts’ lines. Alternatively, the majority may try to spread their voters out so that there are more of their voters present in what would otherwise be the minority’s areas. This effectively makes it less likely that any one party could exist in a majority in these areas. Gerrymandering has affected every one of America’s states, and while North Carolina and Michigan have been found to be some of the most glaring examples, Florida, Maryland, and Virginia have also been brought to task and accused of being less than truthful about the way they draw their districts’ lines. Interestingly, a great way to counter this problem is by using math. Algorithms can actually be used in order to determine the fairest and most compact design for an electoral district, leaving no room for politicians to poison the well, so to speak. Every time a census is conducted, the issue of gerrymandering is raised without fail, and redistricting plans are always challenged. Both Congress and the Supreme Court have addressed the issue throughout gerrymandering history. Some instances in particular include: Gerrymandering actually got its name from Elbridge Gerry, the governor of Massachusetts who served from 1810 to 1812. Governor Gerry signed a bill that redistricted the state to be overwhelmingly in favor of what was, at that time, the Republican majority – a move that, of course, greatly upset the Federalist opposition. When someone pointed out that one of the congressional districts looked like a salamander on the map, one of the Federalists responded that the image wasn’t of a salamander, but of a “gerrymander” (a combination of “Gerry”j and salamander), and so the term was born. Following enactment of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which sought to remove barriers designed to keep African Americans from voting, a practice ensued of spreading minorities thinly across voting districts, making their numbers too few to make any sort of significant impact within their districts when voting for their preferred candidates. This practice is referred to as “racial gerrymandering,” and it is a prime example of gerrymandering that infringes upon voters’ rights, rather than simply being beneficial to the majority party. The problem was addressed by the U.S. Supreme Court on several occasions, which upheld the constitutionality of the Act. Since, in Virginia, the minority electorate tends to lean in a more liberal direction in every majority-minority district, padding electoral districts with minorities is essentially the same thing as padding numbers with Democrats. So, on that note, Virginia’s district map tends to favor Republicans in much the same way that it tends to favor Caucasians, which is why experts claim that the majority-minority districts are more beneficial to Republicans than to Democrat minorities. While most of these majority-minority districts are located in the southern states, northern states like New York and Ohio support the practice as well. The District Court determined that the Democrats had a valid claim, and that an equal protection violation had occurred. The case then went to the U.S. Supreme Court, which ruled that the results of a single election could not be used to prove unconstitutional discrimination. It also concluded that the Equal Protection Clause of the Constitution does not confer group rights to an equal share of political power.