WXML is a group of mathematical explorers pushing the bounds of discovery and showcasing mathematics via experimental, computational, and especially visual WXML open house! WXML final presentations and lab photo! Based on an idea of Katie Edmonds, Matthias Kawski and the Arizona State University Math Circle create surfaces out of PVC piping to study topology! 's cover photo Washington Experimental Mathematics Laboratory Three prints of the SageMath dodecahedron. The .STL file was generated by Professor Jayadev Athreyu. While we are still fine tuning our abilities with 3D printing, we are very excited about the bigger print which is approximately the size of a softball. A successful print of the Lorenz Attractor! Graduate student Avi Levy generated the model using Mathematica. We are very excited to be printing the new pentagonal tiling recently discovered by Casey Mann, Jennifer McLoud and David Von Derau at the University of Washington Bothell. Professor Jayadev Athreya is leading further research into tilings here at WXML and Leif Svensson is generating and printing the new tile. Here is a video of the print in action. 's cover photo Profile Pictures Washington Experimental Mathematics Laboratory The City of Seattle's Upward Bound program serves college-bound students at Garfield HS, Rainier Beach HS and Chief Sealth HS. SAIFA- a destination to Learn, Perform & Excel in Carnatic Music. Classes offered by Sreevidya Varadarajan, MA Indian Music, University Of Madras. kulshancollege.com We are Seattle's nature camp for toddlers and their parents. Wild Chid Seattle explores the different habitats within Carkeek Park year round. songs for seeds is a rockin' music program that encourages children newborn to 6-years old to sing, dance and play along with a live, three-piece band. We're wedding photographers because we think marriage is the best thing ever. We are best friends, coffee-lovers, night owls, road-trippers, youtubers, photographers and educators! Based in Seattle and available worldwide. The Hermetic Order of the Golden Phoenix is a coven centered around the ancient art and secrets of alchemy. Avivara is dedicated to improving the quality of, and access to, education in rural, poverty-impacted villages in Guatemala. Learn more about our work at www.avivara.org. We build startups for entrepreneurs and enterprises. The purpose of the PNW Product Management Community is to advance the knowledge, quality, and opportunities for Product Managers living in the Pacific Nort Help protect boreal birds - sign the endorsement at borealbirdsneedhalf.org. Learn more about the Boreal Songbird Initiative at borealbirds.org. Guiding the Suicidal Person, and/or Those with Deep Despair, Using Maps, Models, & Metaphors