Why does everything at this school I'm interested in have to be competitive? In all seriousness, I was recently denied from WXML for Spring 2018 and I was curious, is there anyone currently in the program or has been in the past that could share with me what they are looking for in applicants? Thanks in advance Which projects did you apply for? It can be pretty hard to get in to continuing projects since they automatically accept the students who worked on those projects last quarter. I applied to the Mathematics of Gerrymandering, Rook Placement Games, and Number Theory and Noise Yeah I'm in the gerrymandering group right now and since everyone wanted to continue on there were effectively no spots available. I wouldn't be surprised if number theory was the same. Just keep applying, I know someone in my group had to apply 3 times before they were accepted. Ok thank you, I'll apply again next year for sure. Is there anything I can do to increase my chances? I mean besides the obvious stuff, like getting good grades and having good answers to the application questions, I think course background helps a lot. Certain types of classes like probability, combinatorics and number theory are more helpful for undergraduate research then, say, analysis, for example. Also having programming skills helps a lot. I agree, I worked on a project with WXML last year and many of the courses I had taken/were currently taking were relevant to the project (MATH/AMATH/CSE courses) and I think this helped me get in. Also, if you have taken the CSE 142/3 courses, these will definitely be useful during the project! I was able to help create a simple program hat helped us with our research, and it's a cool thing to talk about on my resume. Admission rate is around 1/3. They also normally do not accept freshmen. It's usually hard to join a continuing project, so your chances are much better in a quarter when there are more new projects. This time there were about 50 new applicants for 7 new spots. A lot of projects are looking for people with a very specific kind of experience, so it's possible to be a strong applicant and still not be a good fit for any one project. Explaining why you're interested in a project on the application form definitely helps a lot. 13.3k Subscribers 234 Online The Unofficial Subreddit of the University of Washington Overview Welcome to the unofficial subreddit of the University of Washington! This subreddit is a place to post links and stories relating to events and happenings in and around the University of Washington. Before posting a question, consider reading some of the sidebar links, or searching the sub.  There's a good chance there's already been a discussion on what you want to ask! Useful Links UW Website Subreddit Wiki - Feel Free to Contribute! General FAQ and Information Post by a Foster's alum (not business specific) Prospective CSE Major FAQ HCDE Advisor AMA Engineering Admission Statistics (through 2014) Getting into Closed Classes Related Subreddits /r/pac12 /r/uwgrad