I'm confused about how schemas work.  I would think all your tables would contained in a database but this schema stuff seems to make tables available outside the database.  For instance, where does the public schema exist?  Does it exist in each database or does each database exist in the public schema? Hi! I am working with some nested JSON data and am struggling to extract the data correctly. My query below executes just fine (i.e. without error), however, the last two columns come through as NULL: Example field: Any suggestions to get this to work correctly and actually show the data? Thanks! CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS "uuid-ossp"; Hello everyone, Hope you are all well. Can you please give me a hint on how to solve this problem? I am trying to query a Postgres DB from Excel itself however the message (on the title) comes up. Have installed the driver it is asking for but the connection is still not working. Anyone who can assist on it? Thanks! Using PostgreSQL 9.3, I have a pl/pgsql function that contains an improper call to coalesce(): The problem is that the purge_finished column does not exist.  Nonetheless, the function happily coalesces the non-existent function into 0 and stores that in the previous_purge_finished variable.  If I run this query in an SQL window, an exception is thrown telling me that purge_finished does not exist. Is there anything wrong with my query? I've been debugging past 5 hours and stil can't figure it out. https://pastebin.com/HAiVjN09 The queries both work in pgadmin, both $1 and $2 return valid values in my log The error im getting is "could not determine data type of parameter $1 at Connection.parseE" I have a table to store my articles in markdown (TEXT). Let's say I have inserted the following article: This is a link with a question mark? The first question mark in the title will be stored and displayed correctly, while the other two will be stored as $1, $2, etc... 9.4k Subscribers 25 Online The home of the most advanced Open Source database server on the worlds largest and most active Front Page of the Internet.