This page is a partial list of interactive SQL clients - that doesn't include reporting engines, ETL data loaders, visual design tools, just interactive clients that you can type SQL in to and get results from them. The standard command line client, maintained by the postgresql development group and typically distributed as part of the server installation. A command line client with syntax highlighting and pop-up command completion. A universal JDBC command line client with lots of features.  It is not specific to PostgreSQL, but it is pre-configured to handle PostgreSQL servers.  Requires PostgreSQL JDBC driver. Open source, desktop application to manage your local or remote PostgreSQL databases. macOS 10.8 and above 100% native OS X app with a clean and simple to use interface. Query editor with syntax highlighting and autocomplete. A modern, native client for relational databases with nice UI and very convenient query editor. It's compatible with all versions of Postgres. OS X Yosemite only, free, "Sequel Pro" inspired. SEQUEL for PostgreSQL is a professional DB administration and management tool, with extremely intuitive and feature rich GUI that makes it the best assistant tool for developers and admins. SEQUEL is lightweight, fast and powerful that it can significantly simplify the DB management process. For those who cannot live without a CLI, SEQUEL offers a powerful Query Editor with syntax highlight, autocomplete and a Console log view that is always visible, so you can monitor the communication with your databases. Freeware, available for PostgreSQL and MySQL, allows managing all aspects of the database: db, table, triggers, functions, etc. Includes import/export wizards to migrate data and structure to/from other database engines. EMS SQL Manager for PostgreSQL Freeware (EMS SQL Manager Lite for PostgreSQL) is an excellent and easy-to-use freeware graphical tool for PostgreSQL database administration. It has the minimal required set of tools for those users who are new to PostgreSQL server and need only its basic functionality. There is a proprietary version available with significantly more functionality. The Marshal SQL Utility is a generic cross database utility with batch execution capabilities. It allows you to test ODBC connections, browse database schemas, discover tables, views and columns. dbForge Studio for PostgreSQL is a GUI tool for managing and developing databases and objects. The PostgreSQL IDE allows users to create, develop, and execute queries, edit and adjust the code to your requirements in a convenient and UI. The tool provides a data editing tool to customize your queries and property window so that users can view all the required information of PostgreSQL database objects they are interested in. AnySQL Maestro is a freeware tool for administering any database engine (PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle, MySQL, MS Access, etc.), which is accessible via ODBC driver or OLE DB provider. Includes Database Designer, Visual Query Builder, BLOB Viewer/Editor, SQL Editor, Data export/import and other features. Allows you to create, edit, copy, drop and dump database objects easy and fast. You can also design your database as ER diagram, build queries visually, execute SQL queries and scripts, debug PL/pgSQL functions, view and edit data including BLOBs, represent data as diagrams, export and import data to/from most popular file formats, analyze your data summarized into multidimensional views and hierarchies (OLAP cubes), manage PostgreSQL roles, users, groups and privileges, and use a lot of other admin tools designed for making your work with PostgreSQL database server comfortable and efficient. Yes, you can use MS Access as a PostgreSQL database interface. Supports data access to PostgreSQL tables and views; many ODBC-based limitations and errors. A powerful Postgresql database management tool to help DBA sto manage the database objects easy and quickly. Supports PostgreSQL MongoDB, Oracle, DB2, Informix, Ingres, SQL Server, SQL Azure, MySQL, FireBird, SQLite SqlPro is an easy to use database GUI tool for six popular databases (Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQL Server, SQLite and Access). One IDE makes database administration and development faster and error free. SQLPro Key Features: color-coding of the SQL, drag-and-drop of objects into the editor pane to save you from typing their names, retrieval of SQL code for things like stored procedures and triggers from the underlying database, and one-click creation of SELECT and INSERT statements. You can open, save and print SQL scripts. Hasn't been significantly updated in many years, but latest downloads suggest it may support Postgresql 9.* to some extent. Database administration/user tool for GNOME, based on libgda/libgnomedb, which are a complete database-independent access layer for UNIX systems, with support for PostgreSQL, MySQL, Sybase, MS SQL Server, Oracle, Interbase/Firebird, MS Access files, xBase. Has an experimental Windows build available too. A visual database application creator, c.f. Access or FileMaker Windows, Linux, FreeBSD, macOS, OpenBSD, Solaris For many years the "standard" freely available GUI client for Postgresql, and so is bundled in many packaged installers. It provides a SQL query tool, an editor for procedural languages and a CRUD interface. It's also one of the few clients to provide a GUI front end to the plpgsql debugger. pgAdmin 4 is a ground-up rewrite of pgAdmin 3. Rather than being a native application it's primarily a web application that's also packaged as desktop web shell. At the time of writing it's considered inferior to pgAdmin 3 both in terms of functionality and stability. Supports MySQL/MariaDB, Adabas D, MS Access and PostgreSQL, as well as other JDBC/ODBC databases. Linux, Windows, macOS Oracle, MySQL, and PostgreSQL, as well as limited support for ODBC targets.  Inspired by the proprietary Toad client. Java An OpenSource (though it prohibits usage by government agencies from USA, UK, Canada, China, Russia, North Korea, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the Chechen Republic) SQL GUI tool similar to Squirrel. Data can be edited directly in the result set. It has strong support for exporting and importing data between databases using its own SQL command extension. It can be used in GUI mode or as a console application. All SQL Workbench specific commands can also be run in batch mode to automate export and import task. It supports schema comparison ("diff") and copying data between databases. Java The druid is a tools that allows users to create databases in a graphical way. The user can add tables, fields, folders to group tables and can modify most of the database options that follow the SQL-92 standard. In addition to sql options, the user can document each table and each field with HTML information. Java Power*Architect is an ERD modelling tool that is based on Java and JDBC. Support for forward and reverse engineering PostgreSQL databases is supported. It's OpenSource with a GPL license. Eclipse/Java Eclipse-based environment, supporting many SQL databases from different vendors, as well as few NoSQL ones (Cassandra, etc). Good query editor with syntax highlighting, completion and autosave. Editing of query results.  SSH tunneling support. Tons of other cool features. Quite good, but not 100% perfect PostgreSQL support (yet?). Regularly updated, as of 2018. An alternative to pgAdmin, which runs in both application and server modes. Linux, Windows and macOS Open source full-featured tool for database management. Currently supports PostgreSQL (9.3 - 11), Oracle (11g - 18c), MySQL (5.6 - 8.0) and MariaDB (10.1 - 10.3). More RDBMS support coming soon, including the ability of converting databases from any supported RDBMS to PostgreSQL and back. Windows/OS X/Linux Valentina Studio is a powerful PostgreSQL Database Server administration and development tool. There is a proprietary version available with additional functionality. Macintosh/Windows/Linux/Solaris RazorSQL is an SQL query tool, database browser, SQL editor, and database administration tool that supports PostgreSQL and any other JDBC or ODBC compliant database. Some of the major features are tools for creating, dropping, and altering objects such as tables, views, indexes, triggers, functions, users, and databases; a programming editor that supports 20 different programming languages; import and export tools; auto column and table lookup; and a query builder, query scheduler, and SQL formatter. Windows, macOS, Linux JetBrains has a dedicated SQL IDE — DataGrip which can connect to PostgreSQL as well. It provides code completion, multicursors, local query history, navigation, refactorings and language injection support. Other JetBrains IDEs have plugins available to provide similar functionality. Java: Windows/Linux/macOS/Solaris Aqua Data Studio is a management tool for the PostgreSQL relational database w/ administration capabilities and a database query tool. The visual administration features provide users the ability to browse and modify database structures, including schema objects, database storage and maintain database security. An integrated query tool allows users to quickly create, edit and execute SQL queries and scripts. Aqua Data Studio also provides an import and export tool to allow users to easily move data in and out of the PostgreSQL database in and from different data formats. Windows, macOS, iOS Navicat is a powerful PostgreSQL Database Server administration and development tool. It works with PostgreSQL 8.0 version or above and supports most of the PostgreSQL features including Trigger, Function, View, Manage User, and so on. It is also not only sophisticated enough for professional developers, but also easy to learn for new users. With its well-designed GUI, Navicat lets you quickly and easily create, organize, access and share information in a secure and easy way. Windows/macOS/Linux/UNIX DbVisualizer is a feature rich, intuitive multi-database tool for developers, database administrators, and increasingly for advanced analysts providing a single powerful interface across a wide variety of operating systems. With its easy-to-use and clean interface, DbVisualizer has proven to be one of the most cost effective database tools available, yet to mention that it runs on all major operating systems and supports all major RDBMS that are available. Users only need to learn and master one application. DbVisualizer integrates transparently with the operating system being used. Windows, Mac OS X, Linux Datazenit is a cross-platform PostgreSQL and MySQL GUI with data grid, schema builder and interactive charts. It also has query builder, raw query editor with auto-complete, team collaboration features like connection, query and chart sharing among team members. Web-based, but available packaged as a desktop app. SQLTool Pro is a professional Android SQL editor for MySQL, SQL Server, PostgreSQL, Sybase, and Oracle Databases. JDBC. Web client, either hosted (free) or running locally, connects to a local postgresql instance via a small bridge application. Can share the interface with others, rather like sqlfiddle.com, but accessing your database. Python pgAdmin 4 is a ground-up rewrite of pgAdmin 3. Rather than being a native application it's primarily a web application that's also packaged as desktop web shell. At the time of writing it's considered inferior to pgAdmin 3 both in terms of functionality and stability. browser-based, webserver included AJAX/JavaScript-powered web interface for PostgreSQL administration. Browse, maintain and create data and database objects from anywhere, in the web browser. Supports SSH for both the web interface and the database connections. Rich interface with tabbed SQL editor with auto-completion, inline row-editing widgets, click-through foreign key navigation between rows and tables, 'favorites' management for commonly used scripts, and more. Installers available for Windows, Mac and Linux, alternatively download a simple cross-platform archive that runs anywhere with simple script. PHP Adminer (formerly phpMinAdmin) is a full-featured database management tool written in PHP. A single PHP file ready to deploy to the target server. Adminer is available for MySQL, PostgreSQL, SQLite, MS SQL and Oracle. Django/Python Open source full-featured tool for database management. Currently supports PostgreSQL (9.3 - 11), Oracle (11g - 18c), MySQL (5.6 - 8.0) and MariaDB (10.1 - 10.3). More RDBMS support coming soon, including the ability of converting databases from any supported RDBMS to PostgreSQL and back. Tadpole DB Hub is Unified infrastructure tool, various environment based interface for managing Apache Hive, Amazon RDS, CUBRID, MariaDB, MySQL, Oracle, SQLite, MSSQL, PostgreSQL and MongoDB databases. It enables you to handle typical DB over the World Wide Web. PHP Schema and data browser and editor. Node.js Hisha is cross-platform and web-based Postgre SQL Database client inspired by Adminium. You can edit and save result by clicking the cell you want and press enter when you finish. Html5 Web Browser (Linux/Mac OS X/Windows) JackDB is a database client that runs entirely in your web browser. There's no software to install locally so you can use it on Mac OS X, Linux, and Windows and it works on all major modern browsers (eg. Chrome, Firefox, IE, Safari, and Opera). It supports connecting to PostgreSQL, as well as MySQL, Oracle, and SQL Server databases. A hosted service, so it requires external access to your database. DBHawk is a web based SQL tool and reporting software designed for PostgreSQL, Oracle, SQL Server and other databases. Its easy to deploy and use. Query editor, report builder, schema and data browser. Java Datazenit is a cross-platform PostgreSQL and MySQL GUI with data grid, schema builder and interactive charts. It also has query builder, raw query editor with auto-complete, team collaboration features like connection, query and chart sharing among team members. Web-based, but available packaged as a desktop app. PHP Similar to phpMyAdmin, enhanced for PostgreSQL, supports browsing and modification of most types of PostgreSQL database objects, plus execution of ad-hoc queries. (last updated 2013, 9.2.x)