$86,200 $86,200 Favoring a more simplistic arrangement, Tesla has altered the Model S's lineup for 2019. Gone are the 75D, 100D, and P100D and in their place are the Standard, Long Range, and Performance models. The entry-level car comes with a battery capable of delivering a 270-mile driving range but selecting the Long Range model boosts the range to 335 miles. The Model S Performance comes with a range of 315 miles but focuses more on acceleration times; Tesla claims a zero-to-60-mph time of 3.0 seconds. For $15,000, Tesla will unlock the car's Ludicrous Mode, which drops that claimed acceleration time to an incredible 2.4 seconds. We'd stick with the Standard Range Model S, which offers plenty of driving range and acceleration performance for normal drivers. We would, however, add Tesla's Enhanced Autopilot feature. Under the Tesla's floor lies a battery pack that yields a low center of gravity and evenly distributed weight from front to rear. The Model S is an agile sports sedan with well-controlled body motions and direct steering. Two different settings allow drivers to choose heavy or light steering effort, but neither of them enable more feedback from the road ahead. Ride comfort is good, and the Model S imparts a solid feeling on the road that perfectly accompanies its tranquility when cruising. Fans of modern minimalism will adore the Model S's cabin, which comes standard with a giant infotainment screen that controls almost all of the vehicle's functions. Technophiles will be in heaven, but we're not completely sold. The screen's positioning on the dashboard will require some drivers to lean forward in their seat to reach certain icons, especially those near the top right of the display. The Model S's sloped roofline cleverly hides a rear liftgate that opens up to reveal a huge 26-cubic-foot trunk. We managed to stash eight of our carry-on-size cases without folding down the rear seats. Paltry small-item cubby stowage throughout the interior—especially in the back seat—is offset by a large underfloor bin in the rear cargo area (unless the optional third-row seat is ordered). Although the Model S has sparked a nationwide conversation about the safety of partially autonomous vehicles and has been reported to catch fire after certain types of high-speed impacts, its safety credibility is buoyed by decent crash-test results from the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety and the knowledge that car fires aren't uncommon, either in electric- or gasoline-powered vehicles. Key safety features include: Without the P (for Performance) tacked on to its badge, the Model S 100D puts emphasis on going farther between recharges rather than on drag-strip launches. The 100 in the name denotes the biggest battery pack that Tesla offers, a 100.0-kWh unit that resides under the floor of the car, while the D signifies the dual electric motors—one in the front and one in the rear—that supply a total of 483 horsepower. Without the P100D's extra grunt or those electron-sapping Ludicrous or launch-control acceleration modes, the 100D boasts the longest EPA-estimated range of any current Tesla—and of any electric car—with its 335-mile rating. (The P100D nips at its heels with a 315-mile range estimate.) Given that avoirdupois, the 100D performed admirably in our handling and braking tests, achieving 0.92 g around the skidpad and stopping from 70 mph in just 161 feet. Like many EVs, the Tesla benefits from having the significant weight of its battery pack mounted low in its chassis, and the Model S's unerring stability and agile responses are due at least in part to the car's low center of gravity. This particular example's optional 21-inch wheels ($4500) with Continental ContiSportContact 5P tires (19-inchers are standard) surely helped as well, which makes our observed range that much more impressive. Despite the numerous battery and electric-motor upgrades Tesla has bestowed on the Model S—not to mention continuous over-the-air software updates—the car feels much the same as it did when it first arrived more than six years ago. The exterior design is far less distinctive than it once was, owing in no small part to its relative ubiquity today. Compared to the wildly minimalist, modern interior of the newer Model 3, the Model S’s cabin now looks a bit dated, what with its more conventional controls and numerous parts borrowed from Mercedes-Benz, such as the column-mounted shifter and the wiper stalk. This slight staleness inside and out erodes the value equation for the Model S. For the money—our test car rang in at a whopping $119,000—numerous other luxury vehicles offer significantly more presence and sumptuousness. But even as Audi, Jaguar, and Mercedes-Benz enter the EV space, none has fitted its vehicles with a battery pack quite as big as the 100D's, and none produces a car that achieves a rating of 300 miles on a single charge. For now, the Model S remains a unique proposition in offering what might be the truest luxury of all in an EV: a surplus of driving range. SPECIFICATIONS We'll help you get your car's trade-in value in under a minute. Facebook Twitter Instagram YouTube