Returns as of 4/1/2019 Founded in 1993 by brothers Tom and David Gardner, The Motley Fool helps millions of people attain financial freedom through our website, podcasts, books, newspaper column, radio show, and premium investing services. Returns as of 4/1/2019 Tesla designs, manufactures, and sells high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy storage products. Shares of the electric-car company ticked higher Monday as one analyst bet shares will rise to $450 over the next 12 months. Here's why investors should hope for Tesla to talk about Model 3 demand trends. Tesla will report its first-quarter vehicle deliveries next week. Here's what to expect. Lithium stocks have been volatile in recent years, though the electric vehicle revolution means that demand for the metal should be strong for many years. Elon Musk's latest reveal is unlikely to change much for the top electric-car maker. The energy business is lost under Tesla's leadership. Can Tesla deliver 30,000 vehicles in 15 days? The Model Y crossover could become Tesla's most popular vehicle. But given that it won't be available for at least a year and a half, that's not necessarily a good thing. Here are the details -- and why the vehicle will be key to Tesla's ongoing expansion. Meanwhile, Noodles & Company dropped despite what management called a "strong" quarter. Reading between the lines of the Tesla news circus reveals a very different story than the one Elon Musk puts out. With EVs gaining ground, demand for batteries is building, and companies on top of that wave are going to soar. Reading between the lines of the electric car maker’s short-term chaos hints at an unpleasant long-term story. The electric car innovator finally hit its 5,000 Model S vehicles a week production  target … but the underlying story is more complex. Also, catch up on big news from Harley-Davidson, GE, SpaceX and more. Not in a good way, though. Meanwhile, Spotify and Fitbit delivered lackluster results. Elon Musk seems to have the ability to spin anything into gold, but how many more delays will institutional investors put up with? Tesla has put another quarter on the books, and what a remarkably Tesla-like quarter it was -- for better and for worse. Yes, Tesla missed its Model 3 production estimates by a whopping 83% this quarter -- but that’s not the whole story. Government investigations, Forbes articles, and Twitter arguments abound -- but what do Tesla's competitors think of the fateful accident? A look at what’s wrong with the Tesla-SolarCity deal, another step toward commercial drone legislation, and more. The company's Model Y unveiling may have lacked the excitement some investors were hoping for. Drastic measures required to bring Tesla's $35,000 Model 3 to market spooked investors. Speculation is rampant ahead of a mysterious announcement tomorrow. An analyst's bearish take on Tesla and reduced Model S and X production hours may have some investors worried. The capital-intensive nature of the auto business is pressuring the company's profitability. There's more than just a good jobs report to this story. Here's how Tesla disappointed the Street, despite surging year-over-year growth in vehicle production and deliveries. The electric-car maker got a bullish vote of confidence from Wall Street. New price cuts in China have investors worried. Volatility continues for Tesla stock. TSLA earnings call for the period ending Dec. 31, 2018. TSLA earnings call for the period ending 30 September, 2018. TSLA earnings call for the period ending June 30, 2018. Elon Musk, CEO 71% Approve Based on 1417 Ratings Tesla designs, manufactures, and sells high-performance fully electric vehicles and energy storage products.