Have Watchlists? Log in to see them here or sign up to get started. There are currently no items in this Watchlist. Create a list of the investments you want to track. Something went wrong while loading Watchlist. Visit a quote page and your recently viewed tickers will be displayed here. U.S. stocks gained Monday after some upbeat economic data from the U.S. and China. Elon Musk praised his delivery teams as they hustled to get cars to customers overseas before the end of the first quarter. We looked back at the performance of six initial public offerings in search of lessons applicable to the coming gig economy. Tesla can be a guide for evaluating Lyft, and its chief competitor Uber Technologies, which is expected to go public soon. As often happens with much-hyped IPOs, investor demand quickly pushed the stock to $87 per share, 20% above the offering price. Tesla’s ability to sell cars overseas is seen as a crucial growth driver. But as the first quarter nears its end, its ability to get them there is in the spotlight. Analysts at Deutsche Bank on Friday dialed down their expectations for Tesla Inc.'s  first-quarter Model 3 deliveries and cut their price target on the stock. The analysts now expect the car maker to report Model 3 deliveries of 52,400 sedans, down by 5,000, to account for weaker-than-expected "sales in the U.S. and logistical delivery challenges in Europe," they said in a note. They kept their 2019 delivery expectations the same at 292,000 Model 3s. With the stock down 16% year to date, compared with gains around 12% for the S&P 500 index , "we believe investors largely anticipate a weak (first quarter), but could remain on the sidelines pending more clarity on the mix and margin profile of Model 3 demand," the analysts said. Deutsche Bank's price target on Tesla went to $295, from $345. They kept their hold rating on the shares. Tesla is expected to report the quarterly deliveries next week. Tesla Inc.'s  stock price target and deliveries estimate was cut by analyst Ryan Brinkman at J.P. Morgan, citing reports of delays in shipping Model 3s to customers in Europe and China. Brinkman, who reiterated the underweight rating he's had Tesla for at least the past three years, lowered his target to $215, which is 23% below Thursday's closing price, from $230. The stock edged up 0.3% in premarket trade. Brinkman cut his first-quarter Model 3 deliveries estimate to 50,000 from 55,000, which is below the FactSet consensus is 54,600. Tesla is expected to report deliveries next week. He said the first quarter is likely to prove teh "softest" for free cash flow, given its status as an expansion quarter, given the Model 3 rollouts in Europe and China. "Any delays in delivering vehicles to Europe and China carry the potential for a disproportionate impact on 1Q deliveries (and, hence, revenue, margin and cash flow), given the already guided back-end-loaded nature of 1Q deliveries," Brinkman wrote in a note to clients. Tesla's stock has tumbled 16.3% year to date through Thursday, while the Dow Jones Industrial Average  has gained 10.3%. Tesla stock price target cut to $215 from $230 at J.P. Morgan The company is expected to report first-quarter production and delivery numbers next month. Tesla Inc.  Chief Executive Elon Musk has sent an email to employees to detail the company's plan to close retail stores, according to a report on Business Insider.Tesla earlier this month announced it would be moving all sales online and closing its stores, but the company has backtracked somewhat from that. According to the report, Musk told employees that stores with good traffic would be kept open and underperforming stores would gradually close down but given a chance to prove they should remain open. Impressive electric competition is on the way from mainstream automakers and startups Bearish Tesla analysts have been busily airing their viewpoints ahead of a quarterly update on production and deliveries. On Wednesday, one of the bulls spoke up. Global growth worries were back in the spotlight as investors nervously eye the yield curve. Elon Musk will have his day in court. The Tesla Inc.  chief executive will face off against the Securities and Exchange Commission on April 4 to argue over whether he should be held in contempt of court, a federal judge in Manhattan said Tuesday. The spat concerns a February tweet about the number of vehicles Tesla will make in 2019. The SEC claimed that violated an agreement from last fall, when Musk settled an SEC fraud investigation over another tweet. As part of that deal, Musk agreed that Tesla would have oversight and pre-approval over his tweets that are material to the company. Musk's attorneys argue the tweet was not material. Corporate jokes can easily backfire, get reported as fact and irritate customers. Apple, Chipotle, Tesla,  Celgene and Bristol-Myers are among Monday’s stocks to watch. Phillip Vogt packed his new dream estate with five bedrooms, a wine library—and every fire-safe feature he could think of. Then the Woolsey Fire came. China is slashing subsidies for electric vehicles, which will test the resilience of a fast-growing EV market that government support helped create. Friday’s downturn in stock prices is having some modest spillover effects in the corporate-bond market as traders react to falling Treasury yields and the latest bad economic data out of Europe. Ford Motor is increasing its bet on electric cars and will convert a second North American plant to build plug-in models even as demand for the technology remains weak in the U.S. Auto makers have outfitted new cars with a lot of technology, but their next challenge is to refresh the software remotely. Boeing, Facebook, Broadcom, Oracle, Adobe, and Ulta are among Friday’s stocks to watch. Elon Musk unveiled the Model Y compact sport-utility vehicle with an eventual starting price of $39,000, his next big bet for Tesla to appeal to a wider swath of electric car buyers. Tesla named Vaibhav Taneja to the role of chief accounting officer as the electric-car maker looks to build up its C-suite team amid a wave of departures over the past year. Zach Kirkhorn on Thursday formally took the reins as CFO. Tesla also named Vaibhav Taneja to the chief accounting officer post that has been vacant since September. Boeing, Roku, MongoDB, Cloudera, Semtech, and Tailored Brands are among Thursday’s stocks to watch. Volkswagen, the world’s biggest auto maker by sales, will  cut up to 7,000 jobs over the next five years, in the latest move highlighting how global auto makers are scrambling to shoulder the huge costs of new technology for electric and self-driving cars. The billionaire entrepreneur is expected to unveil the all-electric Model Y compact sport-utility vehicle Thursday, as he strives to turn the upstart auto maker into a mass-market car company. Alphabet, Boeing, Apple, ADT, Stitch Fix, Coupa Software, and Stamps.com are among Tuesday’s stocks to watch. A growing horde of Chinese investors are contributing to large price moves and unusual trading patterns in some U.S.-listed stocks. Many are young, tech-savvy individuals who stay up late to trade using mobile apps, and who prefer the unfettered nature of U.S. markets to more restrictive conditions in mainland China. Tesla CEO Elon Musk pushed back against regulators, telling a federal judge he didn’t violate a fraud settlement that restricted his social-media communications and suggested the government is trying to muzzle him. Electric-car maker Tesla said it would keep more showrooms open than it had previously planned, and that it would also raise its vehicle prices by about 3% on average world-wide. The electric-car maker said a syndicate of lenders agreed to invest as much as $521 million in its factory in Shanghai. Boeing, Nvidia, Mellanox Technologies, Barrick Gold, Apple and GE are among Monday’s stocks to watch. Corporate jokes can easily backfire, get reported as fact and irritate customers. 7 ETFs to Buy for Serious Diversification Monday Apple Rumors: 2019 iPhone May Support Two-Way Wireless Charging Tesla: Q1 Headwinds Could Create A Buying Opportunity How To Beat The Market In The Late Stages Of The Cycle Tesla sends a Semi out to make deliveries Merger Arbitrage Mondays - April 1, 2019 5 Soft Reasons To Reconsider A Tesla Position Apple, Chipotle, Tesla,  Celgene and Bristol-Myers are among Monday’s stocks to watch. History Repeating: Why It May Be Time To Turn Bullish On NIO Stock Korea Automobile: Key Takeaways From The 2019 Seoul Motor Show Automakers, Macau Names And CinemaCon Action (Stocks To Watch Podcast) Stanphyl Capital Letter - March 2019 Stocks To Watch: Automakers, Macau Names And CinemaCon Action By Gene Munster We’re expecting bad news from next week’s release of Tesla’s (TSLA) Mar-19 production and delivery numbers. Challenging logistics will likely ...[...] Traffic Engineer Wins Dorfman’s 3-Stock Derby JPMorgan Cuts Tesla Price Target After Meeting With Management Daimler upshifts self-driving truck plans Growing demand for SUVs and crossovers compared to passenger cars and sedans make the prospects better for domestic auto companies. JPMorgan reels in estimates on Tesla Lithium Ion Battery Market to 2025 - Global Analysis and Forecasts Type, by Power Capacity (0 - 3000mAh, 3000 - 10000mAh, 10000mAh - 60000mAh, and >60000mAh) Carbon Announces Updates to its Leadership Team New Report: Hybrid Vehicle Market Booming Globally | Industry Forecast 2019-2028 Self-Driving Car Market 2018-2025: Tesla Motors, Audi, Ford, Toyota and Others Rise in Automobiles to Boost Automotive Battery Market with Noteworthy CAGR of 5.3% by 2024 Rise in Automobiles to Boost Automotive Battery Market with Noteworthy CAGR of 5.3% by 2024 Automotive Artificial Intelligence Market Size will reach US$ 10.5 Billion by 2024 Tender Offer Extension for Acquisition of Maxwell Technologies, Inc. Tender Offer Extension for Acquisition of Maxwell Technologies, Inc. Lithium-Ion Battery Market Insights 2019, Global Competitors, Share Growth and Future Forecast to 2025 Computer Vision Market 2019 Global Size, Share, Growth, Profit Analysis, Segments and Trends by Forecast to 2023 Automotive Artificial Intelligence Market Size, Share 2019 to 2028, Business Statistics, Growth Prospects and Forecast 2028 Canada : Solar Alliance Becomes Tesla Approved Vendor Data and Connectivity Take Center Stage in Changing World of Automobile Technology Data and Connectivity Take Center Stage in Changing World of Automobile Technology Connected Car Market 2019: Global Analysis, Share, Trends, Application Analysis and Forecast To 2026 Autonomous Trucks Industry 2019 Global Market Size, Trends, Share, Growth Insight, Competitive Analysis, Leading Players, Regional, And Global Forecast To 2023 Nasdaq 100 Movers: TFCF, NVDA Solar Alliance Becomes Tesla Approved Vendor Electric Vehicle Charging Services Market Analysis, Research, Share, Growth, Sales, Trends, Forecast by 2028 Copyright © 2019 MarketWatch, Inc.  All rights reserved.