When Soby of Evoto Rentals handed the key fob of one of the company’s Tesla Model S to a client that booked... A Tesla store at Ross Park Mall in Pittsburgh, PA is showing off its sense of humor through a cool April Fools’... General Motors (GM) is now the second vehicle manufacturer to sell 200,000 electric cars, triggering a phaseout period for the $7,500 federal... An announcement from the Norwegian Road Federation (NRF) has revealed that nearly 60% of all vehicles sold in Norway last month were... Tesla has just completed the first quarter of 2019, and all eyes are now on the company as it prepares to release... The Tesla Model S has outranked a number of Germany’s best luxury sedans in terms of resale value, according to the Schwacke... A report from German business newspaper Wirtschaftswoche has determined that Tesla’s batteries for the Model 3 have over four times less cobalt... Tesla’s Semi Truck is nearing production readiness, and a new video showing the long hauler transporting its brethren Model S, Model 3,... A Tesla Model 3 owner is thanking the video recording capabilities of Sentry Mode after it captured a shocking act of vandalism... To say that Tesla is moving fast is an understatement. Operating under Silicon Valley principles, Tesla has exhibited insane growth over the... Behind every installation of a Dandelion geothermal heating and air conditioning unit is a story. These stories are different for each customer,... Tesla stock (NASDAQ:TSLA) remains volatile as the electric car maker approaches the end of the first quarter, and as analysts continue to... This is a free excerpt of our weekly member-only Newsletter. Each week, we give you our take on the biggest stories of... Just months before its production version is unveiled, the Porsche Taycan is entering its final testing phase. Spanning multiple countries and involving... A closer look at Gigafactory 3’s overnight construction work has revealed several interesting details about the progress of Tesla’s upcoming factory in... Tesla Semi Truck rival Nikola Motor Company has announced a $16 million equipment purchase for its hydrogen fuel cell laboratory, representing an... Legendary host, comedian and car aficionado Jay Leno recently made an appearance in an interview with USA Today. During his short segment... Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA) might be facing a lot of negativity from its skeptics recently over concerns about the Model 3’s demand this quarter,... The Boston Consulting Group’s 13th annual report, which defines the world’s most innovative companies, has listed California-based electric car maker Tesla as... Tesla’s Sentry Mode has finally arrived for Model X and Model S owners under version 2019.8.3. The all-electric car maker’s latest security... A Tesla store at Ross Park Mall in Pittsburgh, PA is showing off its sense of humor through a cool April Fools’... An announcement from the Norwegian Road Federation (NRF) has revealed that nearly 60% of all vehicles sold in Norway last month were... Tesla has just completed the first quarter of 2019, and all eyes are now on the company as it prepares to release... Copyright © TESLARATI. All rights reserved.