Tesla Inc will pay a $31,000 penalty and purchase $55,000 in emergency response equipment for a California city under a settlement reached with the Environmental Protection Agency over federal hazardous waste violations at its automotive factory, the government said Monday.  The EPA said in a statement that Tesla will take specific steps to properly manage hazardous wastes at its factory after unannounced inspections in 2017 to its Fremont, California factory. In a symbolic first, electric cars outsold fossil fuel-powered ones in Norway last month.  Bu added that electric cars’ share of the market in the first three months of 2019 was 48.4% and is expected to hover around 50% for the whole year.  “Norway shows the whole world that the electric car can replace cars powered by gasoline and diesel and be an important contribution in the fight to reduce C02 emissions,” Bu said in a statement. Shares of the electric-car company ticked higher Monday as one analyst bet shares will rise to $450 over the next 12 months. Shares of the auto maker could enter a new long-term uptrend with a rally above broken five-year support near $9.00. (Bloomberg) -- Elon Musk praised a security lab’s findings of flaws in Tesla Inc.’s driver-assistance system Autopilot, including a hack the group said could lead the company’s electric cars to enter into oncoming traffic. It’s been said that Elon Musk sells his cars with a splash of Freud . He keeps things sexy — or S3XY, because he failed to win the "Model E" trademark from Ford Motor Company (NYSE: F ) and resorted ... Leading the Apple (NASDAQ:AAPL) rumor mill today is news of a possible feature for the 2019 iPhone. Today, we'll look at that and other Apple Rumors for Monday.Two-Way Wireless Charging: A new rumor claims that AAPL will introduce two-way wireless charging to the 2019 iPhone, reports MacRumors. This rumor claims that this will allow the 2019 iPhone to act as a a charging mat for other devices. This could make it perfect for charging up AirPods on the go. This same rumor also says that the tech company will include larger batteries in its 2019 iPhone line to make up for the extra charging feature.Israel Store: Rumor has it that Apple is giving up on opening a store in Israel, 9to5Mac notes. The tech company wants to open its first retail location in the country, but isn't having any luck in malls. Reports claims that no mall owners have been willing to agree to AAPL's terms for opening a store. The reports claim that this has resulted in the company giving up on opening physical retail locations in the country.InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading TipsCar Hire: A recent hire at at Apple hints at its plans for a car, reports AppleInsider. Michael Schwekutsch is now reportedly a part of the tech company's Special Projects Group. This could have him working on Project Titan. His hiring matters due to his work history. Before joining AAPL, he was the Vice President responsible for powertrains at Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA).Check out more recent Apple Rumors or Subscribe to Apple Rumors : RSS As of this writing, William White did not hold a position in any of the aforementioned securities. Compare Brokers The post Monday Apple Rumors: 2019 iPhone May Support Two-Way Wireless Charging appeared first on InvestorPlace. It’s always a day of suspense for investors, especially after a tumultuous 2018 in which production tripled while still managing to fall short of dramatic targets set by Tesla Chief Executive Officer Elon Musk.  An experimental tool built by Bloomberg to track the rollout of Tesla’s Model 3 electric car suggests the production total could approach 80,000 cars, far higher than the average analyst estimate of 64,400, according to research firm Visible Alpha. The gap between Bloomberg’s projection and the Wall Street consensus is more than $800 million worth of Model 3 cars.  The Bloomberg tracker relies on two sets of vehicles identification numbers: those Tesla registers in batches with the U.S. government prior to production and those submitted by new owners to Bloomberg after delivery. There’s been a flood of new VINs as Tesla rushes to deliver the car across multiple continents for the first time. Elon Musk praised his delivery teams as they hustled to get cars to customers overseas before the end of the first quarter. Equity Markets: Headlines Changed from ‘Worst’ to ‘Best’(Continued from Prior Part)Equity markets US equity markets had a strong first quarter. The S&P 500 (SPY) rose 13.1% during the first quarter. Several developments helped the Almost 60 percent of all new cars sold in Norway in March were fully electric, the Norwegian Road Federation (NRF) said on Monday, a global record as the country seeks to end fossil-fueled vehicles sales by 2025.  Exempting battery engines from taxes imposed on diesel and petrol cars has upended Norway's auto market, elevating brands like Tesla and Nissan, with its Leaf model, while hurting sales of Toyota, Daimler and others.  In 2018, Norway's fully electric car sales rose to a record 31.2 percent market share from 20.8 percent in 2017, far ahead of any other nation, and buyers had to wait as producers struggled to keep up with demand. Per inhabitant, Norway already boasts more electric cars than any other place on Earth thanks to generous incentives.  With 5,315 new cars registered, Tesla’s Model 3 accounted for 29 percent of the new sales. We looked back at the performance of six initial public offerings in search of lessons applicable to the coming gig economy. April Fools' Day has practically become a holiday for some businesses in the Bay Area, with no shortage of memorable pranks. HENDERSON, NV / ACCESSWIRE / April 1, 2019 / Tech stocks are back in vogue this year; below we've highlighted some. Two major areas to concentrate on in tech are artificial intelligence (AI) and Internet ... While Musk’s has been quiet on Twitter thus far Monday, he had an eventful weekend on his favorite social network.  In a series of posts that were more head-scratching and April Fools-like, Musk shared an auto-tuned tribute song for Harambe, the gorilla killed at the Cincinnati Zoo in 2016 that became an Internet sensation.  Strange as Musk’s posts may have been over the weekend, Tesla shares rose as much as 2.1 percent shortly after the open of regular trading Monday. Apple Inc. has hired a senior Tesla executive who helped design two of the company’s forthcoming cars, the Roadster supercar and semi-truck. Our call of the day from UBS’s chief economist Paul Donovan, says investors want to take this latest China data with a grain of salt, as he says it’s not presenting a true underlying picture. That country's 50% subsidy reduction for pure-battery EVs is a near-term speed bump that should pay off long term for innovative automakers and their shareholders. One of the more interesting battleground stocks in the market is Chinese electric vehicle (EV) maker NIO Inc. (NYSE:NIO). Often considered the Chinese version of Tesla (NASDAQ:TSLA), NIO stock has been one of the hottest buys in the entire market in early 2019.Source: Shutterstock From January to early March, NIO stock rallied from $6 to $10, boosted by burgeoning global EV demand, China economic improvements, and a 60 Minutes segment which highlighted NIO's potential in the China electric car market.That rally didn't last. NIO reported ugly fourth quarter numbers in mid-March. Management also delivered a below-consensus guide, and said that early 2019 sales volume was actually dropping from late 2018 levels. Investors freaked out. Over the course of the next two weeks, NIO stock lost half of its value. Today, the stock trades right around $5.InvestorPlace - Stock Market News, Stock Advice & Trading TipsIn other words, NIO Inc. stock has ricocheted from $6 to $10 to $5, all over the course of three months. That is the textbook definition of volatility.But, volatility works in both directions: Sharp rallies often end in sharp declines, and sharp declines often end in sharp rallies. Given this volatility truism, and that NIO's fundamentals and technicals support a rally here, it increasingly looks like now may be the time to turn bullish on beaten-up NIO stock. History and Technicals Imply a Rally AheadNIO stock has been highly volatile ever since hitting public markets in late 2018. But, this volatility has followed a fairly straightforward pattern. If this pattern persists, then the next move in NIO stock could be a sharp rally higher.  * 7 Reasons to Buy Housing Stocks in 2019 The pattern here is simple. NIO stock tends to drop sharply over the course of a few weeks to a month, and then reverses course and stages a big rally over the course of the next several weeks. From early September to early October, NIO stock dropped from $12 to $6, only to rebound to $8 by mid-October. Then, from mid-October to early November, the shares fell back to $6, only to bounce back to $8 by late November. That was followed by a sell-off to $6 into Christmas, which turned into a multi-month rally to $10+ prices.Now, we are just over three weeks into this new big sell-off. If history repeats itself, that means we are close to a turnaround, and that NIO stock could be due a for a big bounce back soon.Further, the technicals look good here for a rebound. Each of the past major sell-offs in NIO stock found solid footing around the $6 level. This most-recent selloff broke that support level. But, the stock appears to be finding new footing at $5, and that means that a successful test and hold of the $5 level over the next few days could result in a bounce back rally over the subsequent few weeks. Fundamentals Support Higher PricesMaybe even more important than technicals and history, the fundamentals support the notion that NIO stock is undervalued here.NIO's current market cap is just above $5 billion. While that is big for a company that delivered barely more than 10,000 vehicles last year, it isn't all that big for a manufacturer that could one day be a very relevant player in the soon-to-be-huge China EV market.Going by the numbers, China's passenger car sales run around 25 million new vehicles each year. That represents about one-third of global passenger car sales. EV unit sales in China are rapidly growing, and have gone from sub-1% share a few years ago, to north of 4% share last year. Extrapolating this out and assuming continued urbanization, then China's total car sales could measure in excess of 30 million vehicles by 2030. Given consumer demand and legislation trends, it also isn't unlikely that roughly 25% of those new car sales will be electric, so around 8 million new EV sales in 2030.NIO won't control a big part of that market. The company is a luxury player in the EV space, and its high price points will restrict mass market adoption. Still, 3-5% market share seems doable. At the midpoint, that implies roughly 320,000 deliveries by 2030, up from just over 10,000 last year. At an average price of $50,000, that equates to a revenue opportunity of $16 billion by 2030. Assuming auto-average 20% gross margins and a 10% opex rate, that should flow into around $1.2 billion in net profits by 2030.Based on a market average 16x forward multiple, that implies a fiscal 2029 market cap for NIO stock of nearly $20 billion. Discounted back by 10% per year, that equates to a fiscal 2019 market cap of just under $7.5 billion.  * 10 Tech Stocks That Transformed Their Business So, with that $5 billion market cap today, NIO stock can be considered fundamentally undervalued. Bottom Line on NIO StockNIO stock has gone from big winner to big loser, and it may be on track to reverse course back into the W column soon. History, technicals, and fundamentals all support the recovery thesis, and as such, I think there's a good chance we see NIO stock rally big from a $5 base over the next few weeks.As of this writing, Luke Lango was long NIO and TSLA. More From InvestorPlace  * 2 Toxic Pot Stocks You Should Avoid   * 8 Genomic Testing Stocks That Can Ease the Sting of Theranos   * 4 Pot Stocks That Could Be Fizzling Out   * 7 Mid-Cap Growth Stocks That Could Be the Next Amazon or Netflix  Compare Brokers The post History Repeating: Why It May Be Time to Turn Bullish on NIO Stock appeared first on InvestorPlace. What Analysts Are Saying about Auto Stocks in March(Continued from Prior Part)Analysts’ ratings on Tesla According to the data compiled by Reuters as of March 28, ~40% of the 30 surveyed analysts have recommended “buys” on Tesla (TSLA) stock. FT subscribers can click here to receive this newsletter by email every Monday. Andrew Hill's challenge Founders are like parents: they find it hard to let go of their babies. When they have left, and ...