Einstein also made vain attempts to unify all the forces of the universe in a single theory, which he was still working on at the time of his death. "I think he was recognized in his time as being pretty revolutionary," said Harry Cliff, an Einstein historian at London's Science Museum, in a February 2017 interview. "However, with big, new ideas, it takes them a while to become accepted and part of the mainstream." Einstein was born on March 14, 1879, in Ulm, Germany, a town that today has a population of just over 120,000 and has a small commemorative plaque where Einstein's house used to stand. (The house was destroyed during World War II.) The family moved to Munich shortly after his birth, then to Italy as his father faced problems with running his own business. His father, Hermann, ran an electrochemical factory and his mother, Pauline, took care of Albert and his younger sister, Maria. However, Einstein could not find a teaching position, and famously began work in a Bern patent office in 1901, according to his Nobel Prize biography. It was here, after analyzing patent applications, that he developed his work in special relativity and other parts of physics that made him famous. Einstein married Mileva Maric, a longtime love of his from Zurich, in 1903. Their children, Hans Albert and Eduard, were born in 1904 and 1910. (The fate of a child born to them in 1902 before their marriage, Lieserl, is unknown.) He divorced Maric in 1919 and subsequently married Elsa Löwenthal, a cousin on Einstein's father's and mother's sides. Löwenthal died in 1933. Einstein's career was peripatetic. He earned his doctorate in 1905, and subsequently took on professor positions in Zurich (1909), Prague (1911) and Zurich (1912). Next, he moved to Berlin to become director of the Kaiser Wilhelm Physical Institute and a professor at the University of Berlin (1914). He became a German citizen. "When that was published in the press, Einstein became this global celebrity," Cliff told Space.com. "Even today there aren't many scientists who are household names, like Stephen Hawking. Einstein was the first of those [modern] celebrities." Einstein remained in Germany until 1933, when dictator Adolf Hitler rose to power. Einstein then renounced his German citizenship and moved to the United States to become a professor of theoretical physics at Princeton. He became a U.S. citizen in 1940 and retired in 1945. Einstein remained active in the physics community through his later years. In 1939, he famously penned a letter to President Franklin D. Roosevelt warning that uranium could be used for an atomic bomb. "It was one of the key triggers behind the Manhattan Project," Cliff said, referring to the successful effort the United States initiated to build nuclear weapons during WWII. "That letter persuaded the government to take it seriously. His voice was heard at the top of government." Einstein's legacy in physics is significant. Here are some of his key scientific principles that he pioneered: There are many applications of Einstein's work, but here are some of the bigger ones in astronomy: Einstein is credited with saying many fascinating things: On science "Imagination is more important than knowledge." "If we knew what it was we were doing, it would not be called research, would it?" "The only reason for time is so that everything doesn't happen at once." "Everything should be as simple as possible, but not simpler." "Science is a wonderful thing if one does not have to earn one's living at it." On religion "God does not play dice with the universe." "Science without religion is lame, religion without science is blind." "Human beings, vegetables, or cosmic dust, we all dance to a mysterious tune intoned in the distance by an invisible player." On war and peace "I know not with what weapons World War III will be fought, but World War IV will be fought with sticks and stones." "The world is a dangerous place, not because of those who do evil, but because of those who look on and do nothing." "Peace cannot be achieved through violence, it can only be attained through understanding." On humanity "Only two things are infinite, the universe and human stupidity, and I'm not sure about the former." "The difference between stupidity and genius is that genius has its limits." "It has become appallingly obvious that our technology has exceeded our humanity." "Only a life lived for others is a life worthwhile." Additional reporting by Reference Editor Tim Sharp. Get breaking space news and the latest updates on rocket launches, skywatching events and more!