The Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has the mission to provide a common baseline of security across the federal civilian executive branch and to help agencies manage their cyber risk. This common baseline is provided in part through the EINSTEIN system. EINSTEIN serves two key roles in federal government cybersecurity. First, EINSTEIN detects and blocks cyber attacks from compromising federal agencies. Second, EINSTEIN provides DHS with the situational awareness to use threat information detected in one agency to protect the rest of the government and to help the private sector protect itself. A useful analogy for understanding EINSTEIN is that of physical protections at a government facility. The first phase of EINSTEIN, known as EINSTEIN 1, is similar to a camera at the entrance to the facility that records cars entering and leaving and identifies unusual changes in the number of cars. EINSTEIN 2 adds the ability to detect suspicious cars based upon a watch list. EINSTEIN 2 does not stop the cars, but it sets off an alarm. In sum, EINSTEIN 1 and 2 detect potential cyber attacks before they can enter the facility. The latest phase of the program, known as EINSTEIN 3A, is akin to a guard post at the highway that leads to multiple government facilities. EINSTEIN 3A uses classified information to look at the cars and compare them with a watch list. EINSTEIN 3A then actively blocks prohibited cars from entering the facility. Using classified information allows EINSTEIN 3A to detect and block many of the most significant cybersecurity threats. The EINSTEIN system is used to protect federal civilian executive branch agencies. It is not used by the Department of Defense or the Intelligence Community. All of the EINSTEIN systems use widely available commercial technology. The first iteration of EINSTEIN was developed in 2003. EINSTEIN 1 monitors the flow of network traffic transiting to and from federal civilian executive branch agencies. In technical terms, EINSTEIN 1 records and analyzes netflow records. This capability allows DHS to identify potentially malicious activity and to conduct critical forensic analysis after an incident occurs. EINSTEIN 2, first deployed in 2008, identifies malicious or potentially harmful computer network activity in federal government network traffic based on specific known signatures. In technical terms, it is an intrusion detection system. On a typical day, EINSTEIN 2 sensors generate approximately 30,000 alerts about potential cyber attacks. These alerts are each evaluated by DHS security personnel to determine whether the alert represents a compromise and if further remediation is needed. If so, DHS works with the victim agency to address the intrusion. EINSTEIN 1 and 2 are fully deployed and screening all federal civilian executive branch traffic that is routed through a Trusted Internet Connection (a secure gateway between each agency’s internal network and the Internet). In 2015, this is estimated to be over 90% of all federal civilian Internet traffic. In 2010, DHS began planning for the design and development of an intrusion prevention capability (previously referred to as EINSTEIN 3) to identify and block cyber attacks. This new system would use classified signatures to protect government networks. As noted, using classified indicators allows DHS to detect and block many of the most significant cyber attacks.