Newton’s Applicant Tracking System (ATS) helps you manage every stage of the hiring process. Broadcast your jobs with one click, accept job applicants online through a branded careers page, and build trust by providing an ideal candidate experience with personalized automated emails. Drive the decisions that drive hiring, schedule interviews, and collect feedback from your team all from intuitive dashboards that give you visibility and control across the entire hiring process. Perform background checks, approve, create, and send offer letters, automate the collection of tax forms, company documents, and more. Glean key insights along the way with powerful reporting. Broadcast jobs through free or premium posts, accept applications, and create the ultimate candidate experience. Command central for candidate communication, interview scheduling, feedback gathering, and more. Perform background checks, manage offers, and onboard new hires digitally, creating the best Day 1 ever. It required almost no training for us to get folks using Newton and our hiring managers love it! I think a lot of times in HR, you are put in a position where it feels like you are forcing colleagues to use a system that they don’t want to use. With Newton, it’s so user-friendly that everyone’s happy to get in there and it’s really well organized. HR Director, Avery Brewing | Food & Beverage If you have open jobs, then you need Newton’s recruiting software. Our Applicant Tracking Software is trusted by over 8,500 HR and recruiting professionals every day to manage and organize their recruiting programs. While industry averages point to low customer satisfaction rates among Applicant Tracking Systems, our customer retention rate is over 95% year after year. We have 50+ engineers working on making our recruitment software better and faster 24 hours a day. Our product designers have real-world recruiting experience and receive input from real users like you. We have a strong vision of the future and are always working to keep Newton on the cutting edge of Applicant Tracking Systems. Our devoted team of Customer Success professionals has years of experience with Applicant tracking solutions. Whether it’s guiding you through the activation process, training a new member of your team, or helping you with recruiting strategy, your dedicated Customer Success Rep will be with you every step of the way. Newton is the recruiting assistant you’ve always wanted. Built by recruiters, our easy-to-use, lightning fast interface keeps your team focused on managing applicants, often without even requiring a login. HR and Recruiters have the visibility and control they’ve always needed without long implementation times. Newton won’t slow you down. Applicant Tracking pricing can be confusing. Let us help! I have never used a software that I have been so happy with. I would tell every HR person that I know about Newton! You can really tell it was created by recruiters who truly understand the recruitment process and this makes it flow so well. HR Manager, Quick Cable It was the first ATS that I had ever seen, big or small, that you could tell was designed by a hiring professional, as opposed to a software developer. I appreciate that Newton is such a recruiting-focused software and that the features are tailored to what a recruiter does every day. Talent Acquisition Manager , Cascade Microtech Prior to Newton, about 85-90% of my time was spent recruiting so I had little time for anything else. With Newton implemented, my recruiting efforts have become far more efficient and I have so much more time to manage other aspects of my job! Newton is not only a massive time saver, it is a major lifesaver for us as well. HR Director , Dental Partners Newton has decades of experience improving clients’ process and use of Applicant Tracking Software. Our free resources can help you take your team to the next level. Filter by Category: Guides Looking to bring your recruiting practices into the modern era? Download this free ebook and see what top recruiters are doing to hire the best candidates. Guides, Hiring Templates Get the essential toolkit for all your recruiting and hiring needs, from job requisition to hire. 8 comprehensive guides, hiring templates and worksheets for every stage of recruiting. Guides Currently evaluating applicant tracking systems? Download our Complete ATS Buying Guide to make sure you choose the right one for your business. Commonly referred to as an “ATS”, it provides a central applicant database, set of processes, and collaboration tools to assist employers in managing recruiting and hiring efforts. An Applicant Tracking System works to coordinate the front end of the hiring process. Applicant tracking system for small and medium-sized employers. Copyright © 2019. Newton Software. Sign up for our monthly newsletter We’ve got some opinions on Recruiting and HR and we think they are entertaining. Learn a little, laugh a little. Email Address Newton Password