Find industry contacts & talent representation Access in-development titles not available on IMDb Get the latest news from leading industry trades Claim your page and control your brand across IMDb & Amazon With Prime Video The "Most Anticipated Indian Movies and Shows" widget tracks the real-time popularity of relevant pages on IMDb, and displays those that are currently generating the highest number of pageviews on IMDb. Each title is ranked according to its share of pageviews among the items displayed. Pageviews for each item are divided by the aggregate number of pageviews generated by the items displayed. Watch now Related lists from IMDb editors Related lists from IMDb users Want to share IMDb's rating on your own site? Use the HTML below. You must be a registered user to use the IMDb rating plugin. See what's trending now Set in the small-town of Bareilly, Bitti is a free-spirited young girl who lives life on her own terms and refuses to be pressured into getting married. Her life takes a shift when she meets Chirag Dubey and Pritam Vidrohi. A couple from Chandni Chowk aspire to give their daughter the best education and thus be a part of and accepted by the elite of Delhi. A man struggles to survive after he unintentionally locks himself up in a high rise devoid of food, water and electricity. In the small town of Chanderi, the menfolk live in fear of an evil spirit named "Stree" who abducts men in the night. Based on the urban legend of "Nale Ba" that went viral in Karnataka in the 1990s. A man is brought in by an infertility doctor to supply him with his sperm, where he becomes the biggest sperm donor for his clinic. The account of Human Rights lawyer Shahid Azmi, an ordinary citizen with an extraordinary commitment to justice. A man faces embarrassment in the society when he finds out his mother is pregnant A Kashmiri woman agrees to marry a Pakistani army officer in order to spy on Pakistan during the Indo-Pakistan War of 1971. Prem and his oversized wife Sandhya are supposed to spend a lifetime together. Will a regular arranged marriage turn out to be a perfect mismatch? A gay, linguistic professor living in a small orthodox city must deal with the aftermath of a sting operation that puts his sexual orientation in front of the entire nation. Jolly is a clumsy lawyer who is faced with representing the most critical court case of his career. Check out the Indian movies with the highest ratings from IMDb users, as well as the movies that are trending in real time. Enjoy a night in with these popular movies available to stream now with Prime Video. Start your free trial Find showtimes, watch trailers, browse photos, track your Watchlist and rate your favorite movies and TV shows on your phone or tablet!