An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over 75,000 				 lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you 				 succeed. Want to watch this again later? Jeff has a master's in engineering and has taught Earth science both domestically and internationally. A newton (N) is the international unit of measure for force. One newton is equal to 1 kilogram meter per second squared. In plain English, 1 newton of force is the force required to accelerate an object with a mass of 1 kilogram 1 meter per second per second. We can determine the force of gravity exerted by Earth by using this equation: Where: We can simplify the gravity equation for Earth like this: No obligation, cancel anytime. Select a subject to preview related courses: While the newton is the metric unit of force, other measurement systems have their own units to measure force with. Here are some conversions between the newton and their units. Newtons to dynes: 1 N = 10^5 dyn = 100,000 dyn Newtons to kiloponds: 1 N = 0.10197 kilopond Newtons to pound-force: 1 N = 0.22481 pound-force Newtons to poundals: 1 N = 7.2330 poundal When you are done, you should be able to: Did you know… We have over 160 college 						courses that prepare you to earn 						credit by exam that is accepted by over 1,500 colleges and universities. You can test out of the 						first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn 						credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every 							imaginable degree, area of 							study 							and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse an area of study or degree level. Next Lesson ©  copyright 2003-2019 Study.com. 			All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. 			All rights reserved. Your Cart is Empty. Please Choose a Product. - Ashlee P. - Clair S. - Chris F.