An error occurred trying to load this video. Try refreshing the page, or contact customer support. As a member, you'll also get unlimited access to over 75,000 				 lessons in math, English, science, history, and more. Plus, get practice tests, quizzes, and personalized coaching to help you 				 succeed. Want to watch this again later? Erin has taught math and science from grade school up to the post-graduate level. She holds a Ph.D. in Chemical Engineering. I've always wanted to learn how to hang glide. It seems a little bit safer than parachuting, but I'm not exactly sure. Here's my big fear, other than heights: I'm hang gliding and oh, say there's some place I don't want to land but it looks like I'm going to land, like a pigpen. Now as I'm hang gliding, I'm trying to land, and I'm trying to determine whether or not I'm going to land smack-dab in the pigpen. So let's plot my height as a function of distance along the Earth. I'm traveling along this line here. When I get, oh let's say 100 yards up, I look down, and I say, 'Oh no! On my current trajectory, I'm going to land in the pigpen!' How did I determine that? Well, I looked at how fast my height was changing as I was moving forward. Really, I looked at the slope of my height as a function of distance line. Unfortunately, right now it looks like I'm going to land in the pigpen, so I close my eyes for a few minutes. When I open them, I'm a lot farther that I thought I would be, and I haven't hit the ground yet. I thought I would hit right here in the middle of the pigpen, but now I'm that far over. I'm right above the spot that I thought I'd land in and still a good hundred feet up. So now I want to estimate where I'm going to land. I'm beyond the pigpen, but maybe I can figure out exactly how far over in this field I'm going to land. Again, I take my current trajectory - that straight line that's a tangent of my height as a function of distance - and I extrapolate out. This says that I'm going to land just beyond the pigpen. That's much better. So I'm going to mark that right here. When I get there, I'm still not quite there, but I'm really close to the ground. Actually, I hit just a few feet beyond that. I've landed, and I'm not in the pigpen. No obligation, cancel anytime. Select a subject to preview related courses: When you complete this lesson you'll be able to: Did you know… We have over 160 college 						courses that prepare you to earn 						credit by exam that is accepted by over 1,500 colleges and universities. You can test out of the 						first two years of college and save thousands off your degree. Anyone can earn 						credit-by-exam regardless of age or education level. Not sure what college you want to attend yet? Study.com has thousands of articles about every 							imaginable degree, area of 							study 							and career path that can help you find the school that's right for you. Get the unbiased info you need to find the right school. Browse an area of study or degree level. Next Lesson ©  copyright 2003-2019 Study.com. 			All other trademarks and copyrights are the property of their respective owners. 			All rights reserved. Your Cart is Empty. Please Choose a Product. - Ashlee P. - Clair S. - Chris F.