The D is silent, hillbilly. Django was presumably born in slavery and was taken from his parents when he was young. Schultz's intuition was right. Spencer and a mob of fellow white supremacists learn their location and decided to attack the duo's camp at night. However, their incompetence made them easily deceived of the traps set by Django and Schultz. Django managed to kill Spencer much to Schultz's surprise. After the events of the previous assassinations that might see them as wanted men, the duo retreat to the mountains and train on using guns. They also hunted outlaws in exchange for money. Django was then nicknamed by King Schultz as the "Fastest Gun in the South". One day, Django tells Schultz that Broomhilda was born to a German slaver family and also learned German from her stay. Django then learned from Schultz the tale of the namesake princess Broomhilda who was abducted on a dragon-guarded mountain until the hero saves her. After being motivated to save his wife, Django agreed to a deal that offered his help in bounty hunting during the winter in exchange of Schultz's help in saving his wife afterwards. The duo's next target is Smitty Bacall of the once-notorious Bacall Gang who is now living peacefully with his son at his farm. Django was hesitant to shoot Smitty because of his seemingly innocent profile but Schultz convinces him to kill the outlaw. Django then snipes Smitty and led to his first real bounty reward. Schultz tells Django to keep the wanted bounty sign as a symbol for good luck. Django opens the door, saying "Hey, little troublemaker", reuniting with his wife. Because Candie is tricked into thinking she can pleasure Schultz, he has her work as a house servant for the night as they talk over negotiations at the dinner table. Stephen becomes suspicious of the way Django and Broomhilda glare at each other. When Broomhilda and Stephen enter the kitchen, he asks her if she knows the freeman in which she answers "no". In order to anger Django, Stephen persuades Candie to ask if Schultz had pleasured Broomhilda, in which Schultz responded by saying that they only talked. This causes Stephen and Candie to show Broomhilda's whipped body to Schultz. Stephen demands to talk to Candie, persuading him that Broomhilda and Django knows each other. Candie becomes angered, and threats to kill Broomhilda if Django and Schultz don't give Candie $12,000. This angers the duo, however they are being threatened by the gun-toting Butch. The duo give up the money causing Candie to give her freedom papers. While Candie is writing out the papers, Schultz becomes angered by Candie's cruel actions towards slaves. Feeling pressured by Marshall who is gunning down Django, Hildi, and Schultz, Schultz ask to talk to Candie. Schultz begins to humiliate Candie among his knowledge of the French, to which Candie gets angry. He finishes signing her papers, he demands that Schultz shake his hand. Candie really has a trick up his sleeve, but so does Schultz. Schultz agrees to shake it, but as he walks over to Candie he draws his hidden Derringer and shoots Candie in the heart. This makes Stephen deeply saddened and angered that Candie is dead, so Stephen is crying and hugging the dead Candie. Schultz then lets Butch kill him, angering Django to rush over and take Butch's gun, murdering him. Django takes some guns and massacres all of Candie's men by himself. The whole house is left in blood with Django left, until Billy Crash and a couple other men come in and order Django to stop, and if he doesn't, it leads to the death of a hostaged Broomhilda. Django orders Cora and Sheba to stay away from Laura and tell their former mistress goodbye. He kills Laura and let the slaves go, but stops Stephen from leaving the house. Django tells that Stephen is already on the same level of filth as the Candies. He starts mocking Stephen by shooting him in the leg and taunta him. An angry but struggling Stephen tries to curse him back but was killed after the explosion that also destroyed the Candyland mansion. He greets his wife with the usual "Little Troublemaker", but Broomhilda now responds by calling him "Big Troublemaker". He impresses his wife with his horse-riding skills and left the plantation for good. I like the way you die, boy. Y'all wanna see somethin'? You got yourself a deal, mate. D-J-A-N-G-O. The 'D' is silent. Hey, little troublemaker.