Us Captain Marvel Widows The Walking Dead OR Please enter your email address and we will email you a new password. Please reference “Error Code 2121” when contacting customer service. The film is at times brilliant but mostly infuriating. It is a good movie in that masturbatory way most Tarantino films are good. Roxane Gay Django Unchained is 165 minutes and nothing much happens beyond talk and the provision of corpses. The plot lurches around and the artful structure of Pulp Fiction has been abandoned. David Thomson A film bursting with pleasures great and small ... Tom Huddleston Django Unchained is Tarantino's most complete movie yet. It is also his most vital. His storytelling talents match the heft of the tale. Lisa Kennedy Django Unchained has mislaid its melancholy, and its bitter wit, and become a raucous romp. It is a tribute to the spaghetti Western, cooked al dente, then cooked a while more, and finally sauced to death. Anthony Lane Genre-movie-mad writer-director Quentin Tarantino's foray into Western World is a pretty grave disappointment. Glenn Kenny everything I wanted it to be: a kick-ass tale of revenge with amazing performances from its leads, smart chunks of dialog punctuated by action, blood-spattered gun fights ... Amie Simon A supremely entertaining, richly cinematic treat, which manages to work in some fun (and often very humorous) genre subversions and engaging character nuance amongst the frenetic gunplay. Adam Lowes If you are a Tarantino fan, a '70s Western fan, a fan of any or all of the actors involved or even just want a bloody, rousing, disturbing, crazy time at the movies, Django Unchained is here to provide it all. Abbie Bernstein Quentin Tarantino's latest film is a deliciously entertaining revenge fantasy set in the American South just a couple years before the Civil War. Kelly Jane Torrance In some of the longer scenes, Tarantino gives the impression he's feeling for a touch of his old dialogue gold dust, yet it never really quite comes off. PJ Nabarro Yes, the sublime strays to the ridiculous. But all the while I just keep picturing Tarantino behind the camera re-imagining history and whispering to himself, This is so cool! If you like his style, this is another winner. Debbie Baldwin Tarantino empowers a black slave named Django to get his well-deserved revenge against his white oppressors, creating an exhilarating, revisionist Western full of panache as he injects Sergio Corbucci's directing style in a top-notch vengeance-driven blaxploitation plot. Maybe Sergio Leone's best film is an update of everything he's done before, only politically corrected, historically corrected, with new film technology taken into context. The black guy is the hero here, the man with no name named Django. Christoph Waltz has so much fun with his role that he should've paid Tarentino. At last Samuel L. Jackson gets to piss on the years of supposed "black parts" he's played to secure his career.  Loved this. Half star removed for poorly written women's roles, but its forgivable. Otherwise, perfect. The new Tarantino flick, I gotta be cruel, there can't be any favours now, straight down the line. So first off I've never really been much of a Tarantino fan, the guy made two decent films many many years ago ('Pulp Fiction' and 'Reservoir Dogs') and has pretty much lived off the reputation he gained ever since.  So what we have here is a 60/70's type retro homage to the classic violent westerns of that time mainly made by Leone. The thing is this film is not a spaghetti western, it may look like one or try to imitate one but its not. The term spaghetti western was coined during the 60's for western films that were made in Italy/Spain with Italians and other Euro folk, for budgetary reasons. This is a mega budget film jam packed with huge squillion dollar earning stars, far from the source material methinks.  Think 'The Man with the Iron Fists' and you're on the right track my friends, this is a western equivalent. This may have worked much better with more of an unknown cast. The huge overpaid names hired tend to detach you from the reality of the setting, you'd think Tarantino would know better.  The plot is the standard revenge one but with a difference, this western is all about African slaves, one particular slave fighting back, fighting the man. Now this is a plus point for the film as its not shying away from real history unlike many old westerns. This is a great concept for a great realistic drama/thriller, unfortunately what we get is yet another typical Tarantino personal fanboy flick which kinda borders on old blaxploitation flicks. You could almost say the film has Superfly stylings, Jamie Foxx's character turns from innocent slave to Shaft in the wild west accompanied by a dreadful soundtrack to boot, there's even rap in this!  Yes the film is violent which is cool but again Tarantino just goes way over board almost making the film a spoof in some places. Now having ridiculously huge exploding bloody squibs is top stuff, exhibit A: 'Robocop' and 'Total Recall'...the 90's version of course, what do you take me for?! geez! But these films were futuristic sci-fi so you could believe the excess blood as possible with futuristic weapons. This film is a period set western so it is totally ludicrous looking, of course its not suppose to be a serious film but these little things matter for your suspension of disbelief.  To be honest I was kinda expecting an old style western much like Eastwood classics such as the 'Dollars' trilogy or 'Josey Wales' or the original 'Django' even! But alas I was disappointed with this film, disappointed to see its just another excuse for Tarantino to use profanity and needless violence for almost three hours!!! wha?!!  Acting is pretty terrible from everybody bar Waltz who really should be in more serious epic roles where his talent would be better shown off. Jackson is perfect for the film as he gets to shout and swear continuously using his two favourite words whilst showing very little other talent, this man is the most over hyped actor in cinematic history. Didn't care about any of the characters a tall, only Waltz gave an interesting turn as the innocent peaceful dentist with a lethal hidden skill. Maybe they should of used Denzel Washington for Django, Foxx is bland and dull.  Not advisable to watch if you're a touchy liberal lefty that's for sure, this film may be a homage of sorts but the 'N' word is said so much you may come out thinking its OK to use it much like any other naughty word. I realise this film has done well but I simply can't understand why, I've seen a whole string of films recently which are far superior to this. For me this had potential to be a really good serious western ala 'Unforgiven' but instead its just more funky Tarantino retro trash. A time pass flick that falters a bit too much towards the ending. View All Quotes View All