use the following search parameters to narrow your results: see the search faq for details. advanced search: by author, subreddit... All about the object-oriented programming language C#. the front page of the internet. and subscribe to one of thousands of communities. We currently support desktop users, and have tested it in Firefox (with RES), Chrome, and Edge on Windows 10. If you're outside that group, then ¯\_(ツ)_/¯. Also, since it's CSS and who knows what extensions/settings you have, your mileage may vary. For the best coding experience, hit full screen in your browser (F11 usually). FAQ: Post a comment! Thanks I hate it End user satisfaction was not a requirement Woops. I knew we forgot something. End users are the dental appointments of programming. And still, you managed to end user satisfaction! this.Score++; Awesome! My boss thinks I'm working :-) http://codereddit.com You are welcome loool XD At least I don't have a warning about ReSharper causing 13 seconds of delay at the top. now i have to wonder why auto complete is not triggering when typing posts. Only 13 seconds? Lucky you... This is amazing. waoh.... I'm honestly stunned.... Great job guys! :D Holy shit this fucking hurts to look at Jesus this is some crazy good theming Thanks for the bug report. This was purely a visual bug, the underlying file system implementation was fine. Nothing fake. No fake. You're the fake. can we have it like forever? its plain gorgeous Super wrong to not have the opening brace on a separate line But the comment blocks all have it on a separate line.   Really gives that authentic feel of looking at the previous developers code. Legit though, this is really good haha. As someone who can only just about make bordered table cells with CSS... Good job man string reaction = "badass"; Console.WriteLine($"This is {reaction}"); // I was short some $ $"This is { reaction }" ftfy error. "reaction" not defined But what really sets off C# from C++ is that it is continually moving away from saying and seeing extra visual baggage. I call it the ergonomics of the language, the inverse ratio of how much syntax there is in a program to how much you wish you had in order to say a thing.  So there's something odd here in seeing extra syntax added to look more C#-like, since it's like that's going in the wrong direction... Fun attempt, though. I always like it when people try stuff like this. I just hope everyone keeps in mind that the real coolness of C# is that it looks less gratuitously nerdy and lets you focus more on the domain, not (as here) vice versa.  So when April Fool's Day rolls around (next week, right?), maybe the final version will reflect that. :) The internet has made me hate April Fools Day. I agree. At least we can turn this one off, though. One joke here and there would be great, but it's every post in every sub. Every sub.  Every website. Every news feed. And most of it is more annoying than it is funny or interesting. I love it But somehow, I feel like loving it is wrong. I had to find the "Use subreddit style" checkbox in order to find this thread Nice job on the css guys. I love it. Please give me a way to do this permanently Looks like absolute dogshit, love it OMG, please stop. This is actually stressing me out. Stoopid April Fools. This is triggering PTSD from back in my visual studio days... This looks so terrible As is typical in most software developments, its readability/usability was not a consideration. Agreed. It met the MVP. Absolutely, Should have gone the superior dark theme. Hah. Thanks for the migraine. :p Because it's not a dark theme. VB/F# should have the respective logos in the sidebar Can someone add a screenshot of it since im on the mobile and i cannot try it by myself https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/b8098i/the_guys_at_rcsharp_have_a_new_design/ejveosz/ i want this to stay... I love it. Now only need about three things from you: 1) The CSS so I can put it in my extension for future use when you eventually disable it 2) to change it to dark mode 3) I forgot 3 but maybe I'll think of it the moment I post this No all caps menus? Ugh, total garbage. No dark theme? this is awful... I love it The solution explorer belongs on the left side.  No dark theme.  Unable to use. Why test it on Edge? That is going away in a few months. I thought I did VS2017. Maybe I have some custom local styling that looks like VS2015? I don't remember anymore. Regarding Edge: because I had it available. Testing involved Opening in Edge, 10 seconds poking around, "looks good enough",  ✓ "Edge supported" Holy shit is this dedication or what? It's an almost perfect reproduction! I want to sat good job but I feel like I am too much of a nonentity to say it. I know that this is probably only for april fools day but damn, this is one of the best themes of any subreddit I have ever seen. Hats off to whoever did this. Can we get visual studio code too? this.Comment = "Now this is just beautiful. Great CSS work, you monsters."; This is some pretty damned impressive css. //Argg! {All the braces} //Argg! {Where my dark theme?} Stahp, you're giving me flashbacks! Bug Report:  I can't click on the back button or window name to go back to the main subreddit page. Regarding back-button: I wish I had thought of it. Regarding window name: Also wish I had thought of it. nbvvhj Awesome Is it bad that I want the rest of reddit to look like this forever? How the hell do you turn off custom CSS for a sub? I'm never enabling it again. Fun fact: this CSS is so extensive it manages to layer over the RES controls in my browser so I can't click them. Joke's on me, I guess, I'll just wait to see if anything interesting is posted tomorrow I guess. This is giving me PTSD. WHY DID YOU DO THIS? Whenever I try to put weirdly specific pages on the Internet Archive's Wayback Machine, I always find that 3+ others had the same idea. Can we keep it? The poor line numbers stop at 304. Kind of a weird spot to break off, really. A reasonable decision. This is already an insane amount of work you put in. Still, major props on all the interactive components. This came out really well. Finally found the upvote button. Good work. Where's the dark theme? I love the new redesign! 0/10 where is the darktheme ffs. This is terrible. Thanks so much. REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.