Book your next event with us Our Collection of Vintage, Grower & Producer Champagne Made with the Aim to Express Terrior Tequila Cabeza, Strawberry Thai Basil, Aperol Lime Lustau Brandy de Jerez, Mango, Plantation Jamaican Rum, Ancho Reyes, Cardamom Ford's Gin, Coconut, Avua Prata Cachaca, Lime, Elemekule Tiki Bitters Belvedere Vodka, Kiwi, Lillet Blanc, Lime Absinthe Tyrconnel Irish Whiskey, Banana, Krogstad Aquavit, Orgeat Lemon Reposado Tequila, Coca Cola, Tamarind, Lime Ford's Gin, Cucumber, Chareau Aloe, White Wine, Lime, Seltzer Tequila Cabeza, Coco Lopez, St. George, Green Chile, Lime Wild Turkey Rye Whiskey, Carpano Antica Vermouth, Brennevin, Curry Pamplemousse Perry's Tot Gin, Dolin Blanc Vermouth, Drambuie, Chichicapa Mezcal, Celery Plantation Jamaican Rum, Raspberry, Mole, Grapefruit, Lime Famous Grouse Scotch, Blood Orange, Campari, Honey, Lemon Dudognon Cognac, Yuzu, Santa Teresa 1796 Rum, Pepper Koshu, Lemon Old Overholt Rye, Pineapple Tepache, Ginger Our Riff on a Dirty Martini. Jenson Old Tom, Caper Berry Infused Lillet Blanc, Allium Olive Oil Almond Carrot Hummus, Crisp Green Veggies Cherry Shallot Jam, Crostini Salami, Ham, Red Pepper, Cucumber, Provolone, Gentleman's Relish Hand Chopped Raw Strip Steak, Organic Egg Yolk, Shoestring Potatoes Daily Selection of East Coast Oysters Parmesan Garlic Croutons Radicchio, Celeriac, Grapefruit, Walnuts, Blue Cheese Chef's Curated Selection. Served with Bread, Fruit and Local Honey White Truffle Sauce, Served in Puff Pastry Shell Pickles, Mayo, Watercress Cheddar, Onion, Tomato, Lettuce, Hand Cut Fries Grass Fed Skirt Steak, Roasted Radishes, Potatoes, Herbed Butter, Crispy Onions Raspberries Fruit Chutney, Cranberry Walnut Bread Great, cool spot. Slow service and a bit pricey, but with it for the cool vibe and great tunes. Amazing experience. The service and music was exceptional. I highly recommend. Service was the worst I have seen in New York. Waiter kept forgetting parts of our order. It took him 20 minutes to get me a glass of wine. Their only saving grace is that they invite outstanding musicians. The music was out of this world. It was an unforgetable night. Celebrated my mother’s birthday. The band was amazing, food and service too. I’ve already recomended!! Went to see the Steven Feifke Big Band. Awesome show!!!!!! Incredible experience and amazing place. Ambience was spectacular, but service was severely lacking. It's the second time I've been to Django, and both times have had a problem with the very slow service. There is a 15$ cover if you are not a hotel guest and a 2 drink minimum per person which is only written on the BACK of the menu. Unacceptable to not make guests aware of that It was an incredible experience, my husband and I enjoyed amazing cocktails while listening a wonderful jazz band. We couldn’t be more pleased . Always amazing when Prof Cunningham and His Old School performs. Servers don't come around enough for orders, but the music performance, ambiance and dancing make this the best experience you can get in manhattan. Great find under the Roxy Hotel. Good music very good atmosphere What an amazing place. The room and music was perfect. You reserve a table and watch the band. The food was delicious and the drinks were even better! I will definitely be back! Music was great. Cocktails Okay. Food is kinda of ok. We really enjoyed our time, the drinks were wonderful with some great twists! The first group we heard was a traditional jazz trio and they were great. The second group, however was quite loud. We ended up leaving because we couldn't talk to each other. No fault of Django! The service, food, drinks were all top notch! Music was out of this world. Top jazz.  This was as amazing as a top jazz venue in Paris. If you want world class jazz & outstanding mixologist cocktails go to Django. Service was also outstanding. We only had the crudete with hummus & the fries. Not mind blowing but it’s a snack. It was fine. The free snack of trail mixes etc was also nice.  Very energetic and beautiful space. I felt like I was in a European jazz / wine cellar with a high energy NYC vibe and world class jazz. I brought my boyfriend here for a special occasion. He loved it and we had a good time. I would for sure go again! Awful, terrible, arrogant service. Great music and good vibes but the level of respect in regards to the service was truly insulting. The Django made for a great date night. The music was excellent, and the ambience very cozy and thoughtful. Food and drinks are very pricey, but expected for being a part of the hotel. They turn the tables, so we had to make our way back to the bar to enjoy the second set, which we didn’t mind. I’d highly recommend checking this place out for a night of great live music. Very poor service from the waiter, manager not helpful at all when we had an issue. Food was good but doesn’t balance the poor service and how customers are treated. Table was the worst. Back was towards the band. Couldn’t turn my chair around because wait staff and managers were constantly walking through. Even with moving as far in as possible, constantly had staff hitting up against me. Way over priced. Very good! The waitress was not that kind. The place is very beautiful. Love the vintage Paris vibe of this place! We had dinner, caught a jazz set while sipping champagne and cocktails...what’s not to love? It was a great date experience and we look forward to coming back again soon. Great jazz experience. Good cocktails. Strongly recommend. Wonderful place with great music and honest food Jazz show for a birthday celebration. The music and atmosphere were great for a Saturday night. Very busy place, but the service was great and the drinks came quickly. The drinks were very strong and the well made Jazz show and drink service was excellent...super fun night! Great Saturday date night! Will definitely recommend to my friends Nice venue - good music - good service - nice location - was our first visit but will return Love this place! The woman at the front of house was wonderful and helpful, even answered the phone as we called to say we'd be a bit late for out reservation. When we arrived, at 10:30 on a Saturday night, she was warm and welcoming, and made sure to have us seated at a table that would be comfortable for the elders in our party. The best was Chino Pons and his fantastic Cuban band, great salsa dancing and a great vibe. Always a Great Time at The Django!! Great Music, venue, food and the service is the best!! Bartenders, waitstaff, hostesses could not be more pleasant 👍 Entertainment and Ambiance was fantastic. Drinks were OK but nothing fancy. Didn't eat the food. Tables are a little too crowded to be able to dig in. Would recommend eating dinner first before heading there. Service was super slow. Was only able to have two drinks. Had they have been quicker and more attentive, they would have made more money off of us. Go their for the Vibe. Would definitely recommend. We had an Amazing night with great jazz music. I loved spanish love song the most~^^ If you go here to enjoy jazz you will be disturbed by the constant and loud chatting and laughter of people, mainly people sitting at the bar. Musicians are fantastic, bands incredible but attendance extremely rude. Happened twice, not sure if there will be a third time. Most annoying thing: besides the band's director, no one from The Django's staff made even an attempt to stop this annoying and constant buzz. Jazz is not free here, you pay a cover for it. Great jazz and the best cocktails in a hip atmosphere make for a great night out! Great service, spectacular vibe. Our server, Raoul (sp?), was excellent. As was the hostess. Fantastic service! Prices are higher than other bar/restaurants but for the quality of the live music and the excellent service, worth it. I am very upset with my past experience at Django. I've been going there for years but noticed a big change in the new management and not a good one. I made a reservation, when we got there the hostess (tall Black woman with long braids) said to wait because the table is still occupied and should be open soon. We sat in the back behind the cameras and couldn't see anything and had no waitress service so went to the bar. Waited for 30 minutes to try to order a drink, as the hostess sat other people. She finally sees me and says if I'm ok. And I said did you forget we are waiting for a table. Seems as she did forget. I told her that it's fine we can just stay at bar at this point due to my frustration. But why do we have to make a reservation if we can't even be seated at a table. The hostess needs to be better about making sure to seat people. I noticed the Django has new management and has changed a bit. Before you didn't have to have a reservation nor put a credit card down to hold a reservation. Now you have to have one. And when you do show up without a reservation the only place to stand is in the back bar, where before we could have stood near the band. I love Django but I feel like the venue is being too restrictive and snobby of a place to enjoy anymore. Where before it was friendly and welcoming. Our waiter was very friendly although service was a little slow. He was a good sport when we were joking around with him. The food (crudite) was good but a bit overpriced for the amount we got. My date's cocktail was excellent (I don't usually like gin, but I liked this drink anyway). Cool spot to hear music, and the Roxy hotel is gorgeous. Good date spot! Went for drinks and Jazz. Awesome room/ambiance, can get very loud as live music does. Drinks were very good, service was okay but it was very busy. Cover charge if you aren't a hotel guest can make the bill higher than you expect but will probably go back. Had a great time.